English AC V9 — Year 5
Unit 1: Examining and creating imaginative literary texts
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature ☼
The P–6 Curriculum Planning Model (P–6CPM) for Australian Curriculum V9 English models a tailored approach to curriculum organisation, supporting systematic and synchronous curriculum implementation in multilevel contexts across Prep to Year 6. This flexible model draws on level descriptions, text types and targeted achievement standard aspects to streamline content and contextualise units and assessments, integrating the strands. Its cyclic design helps sustain engagement and relevance across different context.Unit 1 focuses on ‘adapting familiar stories’ as a common theme. Unit contexts across successive years may explore a range of literary texts, for example:narrative text topics such as family or life-like contexts, imaginary creatures, futuristic or fantasy worlds, social issues, historical or cultural contexts a selection of classic and contemporary narrative textsliterature of wide-ranging Australian and world authors, including that of First Nations Australians and texts from and about Asia.The P–6CPM includes supplementary resources to support implementation in a range of schools including small schools and larger schools with complex and/or multilevel contexts.The P–6 Curriculum Planning Model (P–6CPM) for Australian Curriculum V9 English models a tailored approach to curriculum organisation, supporting systematic and synchronous curriculum implementation in multilevel contexts across Prep to Year 6. This flexible model draws on level descriptions, text types and targeted achievement standard aspects to streamline content and contextualise units and assessments, integrating the strands. Its cyclic design helps sustain engagement and relevance across different context.Unit 1 focuses on ‘adapting familiar stories’ as a common theme. Unit contexts across successive years may explore a range of literary texts, for example:narrative text topics such as family or life-like contexts, imaginary creatures, futuristic or fantasy worlds, social issues, historical or cultural contexts a selection of classic and contemporary narrative textsliterature of wide-ranging Australian and world authors, including that of First Nations Australians and texts from and about Asia.The P–6CPM includes supplementary resources to support implementation in a range of schools including small schools and larger schools with complex and/or multilevel contexts.
The P–6 Curriculum Planning Model (P–6CPM) for Australian Curriculum V9 English models a tailored approach to curriculum organisation, supporting systematic and synchronous curriculum implementation in multilevel contexts across Prep to Year 6. This flexible model draws on level descriptions, text types and targeted achievement standard aspects to streamline content and contextualise units and assessments, integrating the strands. Its cyclic design helps sustain engagement and relevance across different context.
Unit 1 focuses on ‘adapting familiar stories’ as a common theme. Unit contexts across successive years may explore a range of literary texts, for example:
narrative text topics such as family or life-like contexts, imaginary creatures, futuristic or fantasy worlds, social issues, historical or cultural contexts 
a selection of classic and contemporary narrative texts
literature of wide-ranging Australian and world authors, including that of First Nations Australians and texts from and about Asia.
The P–6CPM includes supplementary resources to support implementation in a range of schools including small schools and larger schools with complex and/or multilevel contexts.
The P–6 Curriculum Planning Model (P–6CPM) for Australian Curriculum V9 English models a tailored approach to curriculum organisation, supporting systematic and synchronous curriculum implementation in multilevel contexts across Prep to Year 6. This flexible model draws on level descriptions, text types and targeted achievement standard aspects to streamline content and contextualise units and assessments, integrating the strands. Its cyclic design helps sustain engagement and relevance across different context.
Unit 1 focuses on ‘adapting familiar stories’ as a common theme. Unit contexts across successive years may explore a range of literary texts, for example:
narrative text topics such as family or life-like contexts, imaginary creatures, futuristic or fantasy worlds, social issues, historical or cultural contexts 
a selection of classic and contemporary narrative texts
literature of wide-ranging Australian and world authors, including that of First Nations Australians and texts from and about Asia.
The P–6CPM includes supplementary resources to support implementation in a range of schools including small schools and larger schools with complex and/or multilevel contexts.
This assessment task is aligned to the aspects of the achievement standard being assessed. Individual school contexts will inform decisions about how the task is to be implemented and how students will engage with the task.
The assessment task gathers evidence of student learning for these aspects of the Year 5 English achievement standard:
Reading and viewing
Read, view and comprehend texts created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences.
Explain how ideas are developed including through characters, settings and/or events, and how texts reflect contexts.
Speaking and listening
Students interact with others, and listen to and create spoken and/or multimodal texts including literary texts.*
Writing and creating
Create written and/or multimodal texts, including literary texts, for particular purposes and audiences, developing and expanding on ideas with supporting details from topics or texts.
Use paragraphs to organise, develop and link ideas.
Use language features including complex sentences, tenses, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or multimodal features.
*Denotes monitoring strategy within the task.
The following materials can be used when implementing Unit 1: Examining and creating imaginative texts in the P–6CPM English Year level plan example.
See the English Unit 1 Curriculum and assessment alignment planner (CAAP) to guide unit planning when developing a teaching and learning sequence and implementing the assessment in the unit.
Assessment conventions and resources
Purpose: To read, view and comprehend an imaginative narrative text. To create a written and/or multimodal imaginative text experimenting with ideas from a familiar narrative.
Technique: Extended response.
Conditions:
Individual work.
Provide the task to students in a way that is age-appropriate.
Adapt the mode and conditions to suit the diverse learning needs of your students and school context.
Suggested length: Length of student responses should be considered in the context of the assessment (informed by QCAA guidelines).
Part A: Reading and viewing:
Students independently read an excerpt (unread) from an imaginative text.
Students provide short written responses.
Part C: Writing and creating:
This assessment may take place over multiple lessons.
Implementation advice
Adapt this assessment task to suit the diverse needs of the students, school and local context.When adapting the assessment, maintain alignment to the targeted achievement standard aspects and aligned curriculum elements and consider ways to make the assessment meaningful and accessible for students.Answer spaces have not been included to provide flexibility in how and where students will respond.Each part of the summative assessment may be conducted as a series of smaller tasks contributing to a collection of work to be used to gather evidence of student learning against the marking guide.Assessment offers tasks across varying language modes – listening, speaking, reading, viewing and writing. Teachers can adapt tasks to allow students to demonstrate the full extent of what they know, understand and can do in multiple ways. This approach ensures accessibility for varied learning needs and supports students’ unique ways of seeing, hearing, and/or processing language.Adapt this assessment task to suit the diverse needs of the students, school and local context.When adapting the assessment, maintain alignment to the targeted achievement standard aspects and aligned curriculum elements and consider ways to make the assessment meaningful and accessible for students.Answer spaces have not been included to provide flexibility in how and where students will respond.Each part of the summative assessment may be conducted as a series of smaller tasks contributing to a collection of work to be used to gather evidence of student learning against the marking guide.Assessment offers tasks across varying language modes – listening, speaking, reading, viewing and writing. Teachers can adapt tasks to allow students to demonstrate the full extent of what they know, understand and can do in multiple ways. This approach ensures accessibility for varied learning needs and supports students’ unique ways of seeing, hearing, and/or processing language.
Adapt this assessment task to suit the diverse needs of the students, school and local context.
When adapting the assessment, maintain alignment to the targeted achievement standard aspects and aligned curriculum elements and consider ways to make the assessment meaningful and accessible for students.
Answer spaces have not been included to provide flexibility in how and where students will respond.
Each part of the summative assessment may be conducted as a series of smaller tasks contributing to a collection of work to be used to gather evidence of student learning against the marking guide.
Assessment offers tasks across varying language modes – listening, speaking, reading, viewing and writing. Teachers can adapt tasks to allow students to demonstrate the full extent of what they know, understand and can do in multiple ways. This approach ensures accessibility for varied learning needs and supports students’ unique ways of seeing, hearing, and/or processing language.
Adapt this assessment task to suit the diverse needs of the students, school and local context.
When adapting the assessment, maintain alignment to the targeted achievement standard aspects and aligned curriculum elements and consider ways to make the assessment meaningful and accessible for students.
Answer spaces have not been included to provide flexibility in how and where students will respond.
Each part of the summative assessment may be conducted as a series of smaller tasks contributing to a collection of work to be used to gather evidence of student learning against the marking guide.
Assessment offers tasks across varying language modes – listening, speaking, reading, viewing and writing. Teachers can adapt tasks to allow students to demonstrate the full extent of what they know, understand and can do in multiple ways. This approach ensures accessibility for varied learning needs and supports students’ unique ways of seeing, hearing, and/or processing language.
Part A: Reading and viewing
Students read, view and comprehend an imaginative text.
Instructions
Select a written imaginative narrative text with a social, cultural or historical context that develops ideas in the story through characters, settings and events. This could be a novel or short story.
Select an appropriate text that students have not read for them to read independently, for example: a chapter of a narrative or a complete short story. The selected text should support text comprehension and be long enough for students to demonstrate their reading ability. Ensure an appropriate level of text complexity.
If engaging with a shared class novel, before administering the task, students read/engage with the narrative up to the selected text portion as part of teaching and learning in this unit of work and then independently read the selected portion.
Provide students with individual copies of the text selection and a copy of the questions in Part A.
Students independently read the selected text.
For students with mild reading difficulties and who struggle to read curriculum text, adjustments to enable access to the assessment task can be provided. This might include providing more time, enlarging the text, annotating the text or chunking the text into smaller parts.
For individual students with significant reading disorders who are unable to independently read, more significant adjustments may be required in consultation with specialists, support staff, students and caregivers.
After students read, they respond to the questions. Remind them to re-read and annotate relevant sections of the text to support their responses.
Part B: Speaking and listening (monitoring strategy)
Instructions
Guide students to discuss the narrative and ideas for how they can experiment with figurative language, storylines, characters and settings, with a partner or small group.
Guide students to tell their narrative ideas.
Observe student interaction skills and students’ sharing of a narrative experimenting with ideas from the original text. 
Part C: Writing and creating
Students plan, create and edit a written imaginative narrative.
Instructions
Guide students to plan their narrative, considering:
the original author’s audience and purpose
ideas for a storyline using context, narrative point of view, characters and settings from the narrative.
Before students begin writing, remind them to use appropriate text structures, language features and narrative literary devices.
Students use their planning to create their narrative.
Prompt students to re-read and edit their narrative.
Students publish their narrative (optional). They may choose to include multimodal elements.
Note: Teachers should adapt the task to align with the language used in the teaching and learning sequence, to ensure continuity between teaching and assessment.
☼ Source: Australian Curriculum www.australiancurriculum.edu.au, CC BY 4.0. © Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) 2010 to present, unless otherwise indicated. This material was downloaded from the Australian Curriculum website (www.australiancurriculum.edu.au) (Website) (accessed 11/11/2024) and was modified. The material is licensed under CC BY 4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0). Version updates are tracked in the ‘Curriculum version history’ section on the ‘About the Australian Curriculum’ page (http://australiancurriculum.edu.au/about-the-australian-curriculum/) of the Australian Curriculum website. ACARA does not endorse any product that uses the Australian Curriculum or make any representations as to the quality of such products. Any product that uses material published on this website should not be taken to be affiliated with ACARA or have the sponsorship or approval of ACARA. It is up to each person to make their own assessment of the product, taking into account matters including, but not limited to, the version number and the degree to which the materials align with the content descriptions and achievement standards (where relevant). Where there is a claim of alignment, it is important to check that the materials align with the content descriptions and achievement standards (endorsed by all education Ministers), not the elaborations (examples provided by ACARA).
English AC V9 — Year 5
Unit 1: Examining and creating imaginative literary texts
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature
Name
Class
Teacher
Date
Part 1: Reading and viewing
Read the text provided by your teacher, and respond to the questions and items below. Remember to re-read and annotate sections of the text to support your responses.
Audience and purpose
Who is the audience for this narrative?
What is the author’s purpose in writing the narrative?
Context and settings
a.What is the context (social, historical, cultural) of the text? (For example, during which historical event does the narrative take place? What is the social or cultural context?)
How do you know the narrative is set in this context? Consider the author’s language choices (such as precise words, idiomatic language), relationships between characters, facts that establish context (such as historical events, traditions and customs) and descriptions of settings.
Characters and events
a.Who is a main character?
Summarise events and actions in the provided text and evaluate the importance of the events for the main character. Use evidence from the text to support your response. 
a.From which character’s point of view is the text told?
How does the character’s point of view influence how the reader feels about that character and events in the text? In your response, use examples from the text and consider the context, actions of the character, and relationships with other characters.
Part B: Speaking and listening
Discuss with a partner or small group how you could write your own imaginative narrative by experimenting with figurative language, storylines, characters and settings from the narrative.
Tell your narrative.
Part C: Writing and creating
You will plan, create and edit an adaptation of a familiar written imaginative narrative text. This might be a prequel, a sequel, an alternative ending, a short story or a different adventure for the same characters.
Record notes and details about the actions of characters, the setting and the plot for your text.
You might like to use the Sheet — Narrative adaptation planning table (optional) to organise your ideas and assist your planning.
Remember to:
reflect on the original author’s audience (consider the group of people the author was writing for) and purpose
extend the storyline using the existing context, narrative point of view, characters and settings from the narrative.
Create your narrative.
Use your planning to guide your story development.
Use text structures to organise your ideas, for example:
paragraphs with logically sequenced ideas and supporting details
sentence openers that give prominence to the main idea in paragraphs
cohesive devices to guide the reader through the text.
Use language features to express and develop your ideas, for example:
a range of sentences, including simple, compound and complex sentences
consistent tense within and between sentences
topic-specific vocabulary and words, phrases and ideas suited to the context
a wide range of verbs and verb groups, noun groups/phrases and adverbials
punctuated dialogue.
Use narrative literary devices, for example:
characterisation and setting
imagery and figurative language such as simile, metaphor and personification
dialogue.
Review and edit your writing for:
text structure and meaning
accuracy of grammar, spelling and punctuation.
Publish your narrative (optional). You may include multimodal elements such as illustrations. 
Marking guide — Year 5 Unit 1
 AC V9 English 
Name:
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature☼
Purpose: To read, view and comprehend an imaginative narrative text. To create a written and/or multimodal imaginative text experimenting with ideas from a familiar narrative.
Reading and viewing
Writing and creating
Read, view and comprehend texts created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences.
Explain how ideas are developed including through characters, settings and/or events, and how texts reflect contexts.
Create written and/or multimodal texts, including literary texts, for particular purposes and audiences, developing and expanding on ideas with supporting details from topics or texts.
They use paragraphs to organise, develop and link ideas.
They use language features including complex sentences, tenses, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or multimodal features.
A
Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences, building from literal and inferred meaning to effectively evaluate ideas with supporting evidence.
Explains, with key details and supporting evidence from the text, how ideas are developed through characters, characters’ point of view, settings and events, and how texts reflect contexts, including explaining author’s use of language to establish context.
Creates a sequenced and cohesive alternative written and/or multimodal imaginative text to engage an audience that builds and expands on the purpose and events of a familiar narrative, using narrative elements such as character/plot development and quoted/reported speech; language features such as vivid and emotive and figurative language; and historical, social or cultural facts.
Uses a range of paragraph structures for effect and cohesive devices to organise, develop and link ideas.
Uses a wide range of language features creatively, including more complex sentences, tenses, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices for effective descriptions and to affect the reader, and reinforce ideas in the text.
B
Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences, building literal and inferred meaning to evaluate ideas.
Explains how ideas are developed through characters, settings and events, using a range of supporting evidence from the text, and identifying aspects of literature that convey information about a context.
Creates a sequenced written and/or multimodal imaginative text to engage an audience, developing and expanding on specific events and ideas that reflect social, cultural or historical contexts.
Uses paragraphs and simple cohesive devices to organise, develop and link ideas.
Uses a range of language features including complex sentences, tenses, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices for effective descriptions, to engage the audience.
C
Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences.
Explains how ideas are developed including through characters, settings and/or events, and how texts reflect contexts.
Creates a written and/or multimodal imaginative text to engage an audience, developing and expanding on ideas with supporting details from a narrative text that reflects a social, cultural or historical context.
Uses paragraphs to organise, develop and link ideas.
Uses language features including complex sentences, tenses, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or multimodal features.
D
Reads words, phrases or sentences and views an imaginative narrative text, locating information and identifying literal or simple inferred information about characters, settings and events.
Creates a written and/or multimodal imaginative text, including ideas from a familiar narrative for an audience.
Develops ideas about the story, using paragraphs, simple and compound sentences and elements from a familiar narrative such as characters, settings and vocabulary.
E
Reads words or phrases and views an imaginative narrative text, making a simple statement about a character, setting or event.
Creates a written and/or multimodal imaginative text, organising ideas using simple and/or compound sentences and including elements from a familiar narrative such as words from the text.
Feedback:
Monitoring strategy
Achievement standard aspects suited to a monitoring strategy within the task.
Demonstrating
Not yet demonstrating
Comment
Interact with others, and listen to and create spoken and/or multimodal texts including literary texts.*
Sheet
Narrative adaptation planning table (optional)
Make notes to organise your ideas for your narrative adaptation.
Consider how you will keep the elements of the original story, including purpose and audience, when you plan how your characters will act and the settings you choose.
Purpose and audience Write notes or ideas about how you will engage the original audience and support the author’s original purpose, for example: what the characters could say or do in your story to contribute to the author’s message or ideas.
Literary devices Consider how you will experiment with narrative structure, characterisation and setting, dialogue, imagery,figurative language.
Actions of a main character
Actions of other characters
Setting/s
Plot Plan a series of events, which may include events that create rising tension or events that lead to a resolution or change in direction for the character.
