--- Extracting c:\Users\dsuth\Documents\Joshua\Year34_English_Sequence\K-6 3-4 English Unit 1 Plan 26 .docx ---
--- Tables ---
Year level - 3 & 4                K-6 Unit 1 | Unit Title – Examining and creating imaginative literary texts | Duration of Unit – Term 4– 10 Weeks
Year 4
Overview of Unit | Students engage with a variety of texts for enjoyment, including short chapter fiction books, picture books, print, digital and oral texts. Texts include classic or contemporary literature by Australian and world authors, including texts from and about Asia, and the oral narrative traditions and literature of First Nations Australians. Texts describe sequences of events and unusual happenings, and support or extend students as independent readers. Students describe how ideas are developed through characters and events and how texts reflect contexts.  Students use these texts as models to create imaginative adaptations of a narrative and discuss their ideas.
Assessment (summative) – what is being assessed | Assessment: 1.1 Responding to literature Assessment purpose: To read, view and comprehend an imaginative text. To create a written and/or multimodal imaginative text developing storylines, characters and settings.
Achievement Standard –  The bolded coloured aspects of the achievement standard are summatively assessed in this unit. Monitoring strategies for this unit have been identified in the underlined achievement standard aspects. | Year 4  Speaking and listening By the end of Year 4, students interact with others, and listen to and create spoken and/or multimodal texts including stories. They share and extend ideas, opinions and information with audiences, using relevant details from learnt topics, topics of interest or texts. They use text structures to organise and link ideas. They use language features including subjective and objective language, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or visual features and features of voice.  Reading and viewing They read, view and comprehend texts created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences. They describe how ideas are developed including through characters and events, and how texts reflect contexts. They describe the characteristic features of different text structures. They describe how language features including literary devices, and visual features shape meaning. They read fluently and accurately, integrating phonic, morphemic, grammatical and punctuation knowledge.   Writing and creating They create written and/or multimodal texts including stories for purposes and audiences, where they develop ideas using details from learnt topics, topics of interest or texts. They use paragraphs to organise and link ideas. They use language features including complex sentences, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or visual features. They write texts using clearly formed letters with developing fluency. They spell words including multisyllabic and multimorphemic words with irregular spelling patterns, using phonic, morphemic and grammatical knowledge.
Year 4
Content descriptions that guide teaching and learning leading to the assessment | Language Language for interacting with others explore language used to develop relationships in formal and informal situations (AC9E4LA01) Monitoring strategy – Speaking and listening identify the subjective language of opinion and feeling, and the objective language of factual reporting AC9E4LA02   Text structure and organisation identify how texts across the curriculum have different language features and are typically organised into characteristic stages depending on purposes (AC9E4LA03) Reading & viewing Writing & creating identify how text connectives—including temporal and conditional words—and topic word associations are used to sequence and connect ideas (AC9E4LA04) Reading & viewing Writing & creating identify text navigation features of online texts that enhance readability including headlines, drop-down menus, links, graphics and layout AC9E4LA05 Reading & viewing  Language for expressing and developing ideas understand that complex sentences contain one independent clause and at least one dependent clause, typically joined by a subordinating conjunction, to create relationships such as time and causality (AC9E4LA06) Writing & creating investigate how quoted (direct) and reported (indirect) speech are used (AC9E4LA07) Writing & creating understand how adverb groups/phrases and prepositional phrases work in different ways to provide circumstantial details about an activity (AC9E4LA08) Writing & creating understand past, present and future tenses and their impact on meaning in a sentence (AC9E4LA09) Writing & creating explore the effect of choices when framing an image, placement of elements in the image and salience on composition of still and moving images in texts AC9E4LA10 Reading & viewing Writing & creating expand vocabulary by exploring a range of synonyms and antonyms, and using words encountered in a range of sources (AC9E4LA11) understand that punctuation signals dialogue through quotation marks and that dialogue follows conventions for the use of capital letters, commas and boundary punctuation (AC9E4LA12) Writing & creating Monitoring strategy -Reading & viewing
Content descriptions that guide teaching and learning leading to the assessment | Literature Literature and contexts recognise similar storylines, ideas and relationships in different contexts in literary texts by First Nations Australian, and wide-ranging Australian and world authors (AC9E4LE01) Reading & viewing    Engaging with and responding to literature  describe the effects of text structures and language features in literary texts when responding to and sharing opinions (AC9E4LE02) Examining literature discuss how authors and illustrators make stories engaging by the way they develop character, setting and plot tensions (AC9E4LE03) Reading & viewing   examine the use of literary devices and deliberate word play in literary texts, including poetry, to shape meaning (AC9E4LE04) Reading and viewing Monitoring strategy -Speaking & listening Creating literature  create and edit literary texts by developing storylines, characters and settings (AC9E4LE05) Writing & creating Monitoring strategy -Speaking & listening
Content descriptions that guide teaching and learning leading to the assessment | Literacy  Texts in context compare texts from different times with similar purposes and audiences to identify similarities and differences in their depictions of events (AC9E4LY01) Reading and viewing Interacting with others  listen for key points and information to carry out tasks and contribute to discussions, acknowledging another opinion, linking a response to the topic, and sharing and extending ideas and information (AC9E4LY02) Monitoring strategy -Speaking & listening Analysing, interpreting and evaluating identify the characteristic features used in imaginative, informative and persuasive texts to meet the purpose of the text (AC9E4LY03)Reading and viewing read different types of texts, integrating phonic, semantic and grammatical knowledge to read accurately and fluently, re-reading and self-correcting when needed (AC9E4LY04) Reading and viewing Monitoring strategy -Reading & viewing use comprehension strategies such as visualising, predicting, connecting, summarising, monitoring and questioning to build literal and inferred meaning, to expand topic knowledge and ideas, and evaluate texts (AC9E4LY05) Reading and viewing Monitoring strategy -Speaking & listening Creating texts  plan, create, edit and publish written and multimodal imaginative, informative and persuasive texts, using visual features, relevant linked ideas, complex sentences, appropriate tense, synonyms and antonyms, correct spelling of multisyllabic words and simple punctuation (AC9E4LY06) Writing and creating plan, create, rehearse and deliver structured oral and/or multimodal presentations to report on a topic, tell a story, recount events or present an argument using subjective and objective language, complex sentences, visual features, tone, pace, pitch and volume (AC9E4LY07) Monitoring strategy -Speaking & listening write words using clearly formed joined letters, with developing fluency and automaticity (AC9E4LY08) Phonic and word knowledge understand how to use and apply phonological and morphological knowledge to read and write multisyllabic words with more complex letter combinations, including a variety of vowel sounds and known prefixes and suffixes (AC9E4LY09) Monitoring strategy -Reading & viewing understand how to use knowledge of letter patterns, including double letters, spelling generalisations, morphological word families, common prefixes and suffixes, and word origins, to spell more complex words (AC9E4LY10) read and write high-frequency words including homophones and know how to use context to identify the correct spelling (AC9E4LY11) Monitoring strategy -Reading & viewing
Moderation – identify opportunities to moderate at multiple junctures (when/who with/ what / next steps etc) | Before (before assessment takes place and at the planning stage)  Week 5  (Week 8 Term 3)  Aligning targeted aspects of the achievement standard being assessed with appropriate curriculum elements.  Calibrating understandings about how to make judgements using sample student or teacher created sample responses to summative assessment.  Quality assuring the teaching and learning sequence and reviewing the selection of pedagogical approaches, practices and teaching strategies to differentiate teaching and learning. | End (Engaging in moderation processes at the End of the reporting period.) Calibrating judgements for reporting by grading sample assessment folios, representing evidence at, above and below the ‘C’ standard.    Confirming judgements for reporting by moderating sample student assessment folios, representing evidence at ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’, ‘D’, ‘E’ (or equivalent) level of achievement – against the targeted aspects of the achievement standard taught and assessed in the reporting period.   Using calibrated and confirmed understandings about making standards-based judgements on folios to ensure accuracy of judgements for reporting on student achievement for all students.
Week 3 – Monday Moderation of Unit 3 task  Coominya SS 3:30pm   Week 5 – Moderation /negotiated time   Calibrating understandings about how to make judgements using sample student or teacher created sample responses to summative assessment
What do my students need to be able to do?
Year 3 Do (Skills / Application) READING AND VIEWING • Read, view and comprehend texts and explain their purpose and audience. • Identify and explain literal and inferred meaning while reading. • Describe how a story develops by explaining how characters and/or events contribute to the plot. • Read multisyllabic words fluently using phonic, morphemic and grammatical knowledge.  SPEAKING AND LISTENING • Interact with others appropriately during spoken and multimodal activities (as part of the monitoring focus). • Listen to and create spoken or multimodal stories to share ideas.  WRITING AND CREATING • Create written and/or multimodal texts to inform, narrate, explain or argue, including relevant details from learnt topics, topics of interest or studied texts. • Use paragraphs to organise ideas clearly. • Use compound sentences, topic-specific vocabulary, and simple literary devices to enhance meaning.  Year 4 Do (Skills and Application) READING AND VIEWING • Read, view and comprehend an unfamiliar imaginative text. • Identify the text’s purpose and explain how it engages the audience. • Describe how ideas are developed through characters, events and context, using evidence. • Read aloud fluently, self‑monitoring and self‑correcting when needed. • Answer comprehension questions showing literal and inferred understanding.     SPEAKING AND LISTENING  Discuss story adaptation ideas with a partner or group. • Listen to others' ideas and respond appropriately. • Verbally create a spoken version of their story adaptation.  WRITING AND CREATING Plan an imaginative adaptation, selecting a character, setting or event to change. • Identify where the adaptation fits within the narrative sequence. • Write a cohesive imaginative adaptation for a purpose and audience. • Use paragraphs, varied sentences, precise vocabulary and engaging language features. • Maintain the narrative context and author’s style. • Review and edit for meaning, cohesion, vocabulary, punctuation and structure. • Publish and illustrate the final version (optional).
Students below | Students above
Types of special provision:  Special provisions in the conditions of assessment may include… • presentation – changing how an assessment appears or is communicated to a student from the regular format. E.g. being read to rather than reading unless reading itself is what is being assessed.  • response – allowing students to complete assessments in different ways such as using computer software or an assistive device to solve and organise problems when this does not compromise what is specifically being assessed. • setting – changing location including the physical or social conditions in which the assessment is completed.  • timing – allowing the student a longer time to complete the assessment, or change the way the time is organised or when the assessment is scheduled.
10 week cycle | Teaching and Learning Sequence | Strategies | Reading | Differentiation | Resources
Week 1 Sequence 1 | Learning Objective: I can explain how text structures are used to organise ideas. I will be successful when: I identify the orientation and its content. I recognise the complication. I explain how the complication is resolved.  Learning Objective: | Beth the story of a child convict – Mark Wilson
Week 2 Sequence 1 continued…
Week 3  Sequence 2
Week 4 Sequence 2 continued
Week 5 Sequence 3 | c
Week 6 Sequence 3 continued…
Week 7  Sequence 4
Week 8 Sequence 4 continued
Week 9  Sequence 5
Week 10 Sequence 5 continued.. | Review
How will I track and monitor my students’ progress throughout this unit and provide effective feedback?
---
Unit overview – Teaching, learning and assessment
Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 7 | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10
Sequence 1 | Sequence 2 | Sequence 3 | Sequence 4 | Sequence 5
Reading and viewing, Writing and creating Examining and creating imaginative literary texts
Literacy knowledge, concepts and skills
Structure: Orientation, Complication, Conclusion | Key details and supportive description | Sentences: Simple and compound  Punctuated dialogue | Sentences: Complex | Tense | Paragraphs  Cohesive devices | Editing Skills | Yr 3 Assessment task 1.1
Context | Settings: Context description | Characters | Point of View | Yr 4 Assessment task 1.1
Noun groups | Precise Vocabulary – Word Wall | Noun groups Verb groups | Adverbials, adverb groups | Prepositional Phrases | Figurative language: simile/metaphor | Figurative language: Personificationersonification
---

--- Extracting c:\Users\dsuth\Documents\Joshua\Year34_English_Sequence\p-6cpm_eng_v9_y04_u1_at1-1.docx ---
This assessment task is aligned to the aspects of the achievement standard being assessed. Individual school contexts will inform decisions about how the task is to be implemented and how students will engage with the task.
The assessment task gathers evidence of student learning for these aspects of the Year 4 English achievement standard:
Reading and viewing
Read, view and comprehend texts created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences.
Describe how ideas are developed including through characters and events, and how texts reflect contexts.
Reads fluently and accurately, integrating phonic, morphemic, grammatical and punctuation knowledge.*
Speaking and listening
Students interact with others, and listen to and create spoken and/or multimodal texts including stories.*
Writing and creating
Create written and/or multimodal texts including stories for purposes and audiences, where they develop ideas using details from learnt topics, topics of interest or texts.
They use paragraphs to organise and link ideas.
They use language features including complex sentences, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or visual features.
*Denotes monitoring strategy within the task.
The following materials can be used when implementing Unit 1: Examining and creating imaginative texts 
in the P–6CPM English Year level plan example.
See the English Unit 1 Curriculum and assessment alignment planner (CAAP) to guide unit planning when developing a teaching and learning sequence and implementing the assessment in the unit.
Assessment conventions and resources
Purpose: To read, view and comprehend an imaginative text. To create a written and/or multimodal imaginative text developing storylines, characters and settings.
Technique: Extended response.
Conditions:
Individual work.
Adapt the mode and conditions to suit the diverse learning needs of your students and school context.
Part C: Writing and creating:
Can be completed over multiple sessions.
Provide lesson time for drafting, with access to teacher feedback and conferencing.
Implementation advice
Part A: Reading and viewing
Students read, view and comprehend an unfamiliar passage of text.
Instructions
Select a short story or portion of an unfamiliar passage of text that has a prominent context and evokes emotion. Ensure an appropriate level of text complexity.
Ask students to:
independently read aloud the selected passage of text. Observe students’:
fluency, re-reading and self-correcting when required
monitor their own reading and, if needed, use learnt self-correction strategies, including re-reading, pausing and questioning, confirming and cross-checking.
Record observations, including prompts, using the Teacher recording sheet (optional) (provided) and the monitoring strategy.
Students answer questions provided.
Part B: Speaking and listening (monitoring strategy)
Provide students time to think about how they could adapt the character/s, setting/s or events from a familiar narrative from the unit that describes characters and sequences of events.
Provide students opportunities to discuss their adaptation ideas with a partner or small group.
Observe students’ interaction skills and creation of spoken stories.
Students tell their story.
Part C: Writing and creating
Students use their knowledge of a familiar narrative studied in the unit to plan an imaginative adaptation maintaining the author’s writing style. Students make decisions on what they will adapt (adding a new character, setting or event) and where their adaptation would fit within the context of the narrative.
Instructions
Guide students to identify where their imaginative adaptation sits within the events of the narrative. Remind students to:
consider audience and purpose
use paragraphs and a variety of sentences
include topic-specific and precise vocabulary.
☼ Source: Australian Curriculum www.australiancurriculum.edu.au, CC BY 4.0. © Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) 2010 to present, unless otherwise indicated. This material was downloaded from the Australian Curriculum website (www.australiancurriculum.edu.au) (Website) (accessed 11/11/2024) and was modified. The material is licensed under CC BY 4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0). Version updates are tracked in the ‘Curriculum version history’ section on the ‘About the Australian Curriculum’ page (http://australiancurriculum.edu.au/about-the-australian-curriculum/) of the Australian Curriculum website. ACARA does not endorse any product that uses the Australian Curriculum or make 
any representations as to the quality of such products. Any product that uses material published on this website should not be taken to be affiliated with ACARA or have the sponsorship or approval of ACARA. It is up to each person to make their own assessment of the product, taking into account matters including, but not limited to, the version number and the degree to which the materials align with the content descriptions and achievement standards (where relevant). Where there is a claim of alignment, it is important to check that the materials align with the content descriptions and achievement standards (endorsed by all education Ministers), not the elaborations (examples provided by ACARA).
Part A: Reading and viewing
Read the text provided by your teacher, and respond to the questions and items below.
Purpose
What is the purpose of this narrative? How do you know? Give a supporting reason for your answer.
Context
Identify a fact that was used in the narrative to establish the context (for example: convicts were transported from Britain to live and work in Australia between 1788 and 1868).
How has the author established the context? (Consider characters’ appearance, behaviour and speech, setting, and historical facts/events.)
Characters and events
How does the author develop characters, events and plot tensions to engage the audience?
Identify a moment in the plot when a character is faced with a decision. Explain how the author helps the reader engage with the character’s decision and the consequences of that decision.
Part B: Speaking and listening
Discuss with a partner or small group how you could adapt a favourite story by changing a character/s, setting/s or events.
Tell your story.
Part C: Writing and creating
Consider how you will adapt the familiar narrative.
Plan your written adaptation.
Record notes and details about the actions of characters, the setting and event/s for your adaptation.
Remember to:
maintain the existing context (for example: you would not include modern technology for a text that is set in the 1800s)
consider language choices and use of dialogue (both direct and indirect)
consider the purpose and audience for your writing
build tension to engage the interest of the reader.
You might like to use the Sheet — Narrative adaptation planning table to organise your ideas and planning.
Create your adaptation.
Use your story planner to help you write your imaginative adaptation.
Review and edit your draft. Ensure your adaptation makes sense and includes:
the same context
plot tension
engaging language and/or visual features
specific and precise vocabulary from the text
a variety of sentence types
cohesive paragraphs to organise and link ideas
accurately punctuated direct and indirect speech
literary devices.
Publish and illustrate (optional)
Bring your story to life by including an illustration (for example: using digital tools or drawing).
Marking guide — Year 4 Unit 1
Purpose: To read, view and comprehend an imaginative text. To create a written and/or multimodal imaginative text developing storylines, characters and settings.
Feedback:
Teacher recording sheet (optional)	Year 4 Unit 1
Oral reading
Listen to the student read. Record errors, prompts or comments as required.
Note: Add an extra page if you need more space for your ideas.
--- Tables ---
English AC V9 — Year 4
---
Unit: Examining and creating imaginative literary texts
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature ☼
---
English AC V9 — Year 4
---
Unit 1: Examining and creating imaginative literary texts
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature
---
Name | Class
Teacher | Date
---
Name of text being adapted:
Choose one or more of the following: Character/s (add a character in a new or existing scene that will change the story) Setting (consider changing the climate [for example: snow, desert] or a situation [for example:  a grand ballroom, an orphanage])  Event (a different decision or actions by a character to influence an event)
Identify where your adaption is positioned within the narrative: Adaptation of an existing chapter (identify the chapter) ______  New chapter between chapter _____ and chapter _____ Sequel (chapter after the narrative ends) Prequel (chapter before the narrative begins) A new short story about the character/s, adapted from the original text
Identify the purpose of your story:
Identify your intended audience:
---
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature ☼
---
Reading and viewing | Writing and creating
Read, view and comprehend texts created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences. Describe how ideas are developed including through characters and events, and how texts reflect contexts. | Create written and/or multimodal texts including stories for purposes and audiences, where they develop ideas using details from learnt topics, topics of interest or texts. Use paragraphs to organise and link ideas. Use language features including complex sentences, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices, and/or visual features.
A | Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative text created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences, explaining the purpose using evidence from the text.   Explains, using evidence from the text, how ideas are developed through characters, settings and/or events and how texts reflect contexts and can evoke emotions. | Creates a detailed, contextualised written and/or multimodal adaptation of a story that builds tension and engages the interest of the audience. Ideas are developed and extended using cohesive paragraphs, a variety of sentence types with precise vocabulary and accurately punctuated dialogue to add detail and extend ideas of setting, events and characters from familiar texts.
B | Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative text, created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences, identifying and explaining the purpose. Describes in detail how the author engages the audience by developing the ideas of characters, setting, plot tension and contexts. | Creates a contextualised written and/or multimodal adaptation of a story for purposes and audiences. Develops ideas using organised and linked paragraphs and language features, including a variety of sentence types, to create coherence and extend ideas of setting, events and characters from familiar texts.
C | Reads, views and comprehends an imaginative narrative text created to inform, influence and/or engage audiences. Describes how texts reflect contexts and how ideas are developed, including through characters and events. | Creates a written and/or multimodal adaptation of a story for a purpose and audience, where they develop ideas using details from familiar texts. Uses paragraphs to organise and link ideas. Uses language features including complex sentences, topic-specific vocabulary and literary devices.
D | Reads words, phrases or sentences from an imaginative narrative and comprehends by describing the context and simple details about characters or events. | Creates a written and/or multimodal adaptation of a familiar story including words, ideas and details from the text. Uses paragraphs that include simple and compound sentences, and vocabulary from the text.
E | Reads words and/or phrases from, and views, an imaginative narrative, making a simple statement about the text. | Creates a written and/or multimodal adaptation of a familiar story including details about a character or an event. Experiments with paragraphs and simple and compound sentences, and uses vocabulary from the text.
---
Monitoring strategy
Achievement standard aspects suited to a monitoring strategy within the task.
Demonstrating | Not yet demonstrating | Comment
Reads fluently and accurately, integrating phonic, morphemic, grammatical and punctuation knowledge.*
Students interact with others, and listen to and create spoken and/or multimodal texts including stories.*
---
Assessment task 1.1 — Responding to literature☼
---
Example decodable imaginative text:
Comments
---
Sheet
---
Narrative adaptation planning table (optional)
---
When planning your adaptation of a familiar narrative:
use the existing context  consider the author’s language choices use dialogue (direct and indirect speech) create events in your adaptation that consider the sequence of the narrative  keep in mind your intended purpose and audience.
Actions of a main character: | Actions of other characters:
Setting/s:
Event/s:
---