Savannah
 
Flood are dangerous because they take live and are natural  disasters .And home are taken away because of flood they can get up people roofs and many live have been taken  from floods. Additionally, floodwaters can destroy roads, wipe out crops, and lead to animal are homes aree destroyed. And habitat loss or washed out bridges.
 
In this report I will analyse This report will examine the causes and impacts of different natural disasters, including riverine flooding, flash flooding, and coastal storm tides  and over flow.. So you can have all the information you need.
In this report I will talk about a riverine flood are not fast and it can be caused by  ice jams dam or levee failure. Or saturated soils and after that  can lead to sudden displacement or business disruption can happen. So people should get flood insurance and a flood system control and a early warning system and we should have more flood control dams and  reservoirs.
 
flood is  when the ground has soaked up  all the water . It starts to start to runoff his causes surface runoff to flow rapidly across the entire area of land when the rivers or dams over flow so it start expanding.  On the surface the entire area of land. And it can get so bad it can get to peoples roof or even over their roofs.
In the text it says the rain is not the only problem  the ocean is to so that mean that the sea is one the problems to. when a weather system comes cyclones push there way to the coast and they push the ocean surface higher. However Fierce winds from tropical cyclones can create a storm surge, which becomes a highly dangerous storm tide when it combines with  the combination of a storm surge and a astronomical tide.
 but flash flood are very fast and it in their name and when there is lots of rainfall
And there is normally no warning time . There for flash flood can also can happen by a dam wall breaking or surface runoff steep terrain. And after that it can lead to washed out bridges water supply issues or destroyed roads.  As a result we should get a early warning system and after every flood we should help pick up all the mess and make sure everyone is ok.


Kianni

Bush fires start when heat, oxygen, and fuel combine, with ignition caused by sparks usually lighting. Bush fires are very dangers there have been 33 people how have died. Dr S. badly for the university of Gorgia has stated that there was more death in black summer than the Australia's second worst cyclone. Bush fires are very harsh and dangerous. in the upcoming report I will talk to you about dangers of bushfires. How they affect people and animals how peopled helped and the history of this town.

Many animals died in the black summer event. Over 3 billon animals were in pated from the fire. It was a harsh time for these creators. Most native animals like koala, kangaroos, wallabies, great gliders, cockatoo.  Lots of these animals' home was destroyed in these wildfires.

The black summer event destroyed the and the town. People homes were destroyed. A town that uses to have so many tourists ,in less than five days 20% of people left. Lots of school had to close because there was too much smoke and fire. Stores closed roads closed due to the trees falling on the roads.

The fire was mostly in Sydney. Sydney is most famous for its landmarks like the Sydney opera house and Luna park. Sydney is home to so much fun things.

Many people helped to put out these fires. Some people were part of the state emergency service(ses). It was very brave of these people to help and save this town. In total 450 people died because of this bush fire,33 people directly killed and 417 died of smoke inhalation.

"It was like I was in a black box, and no one cloud help me". These are the people that suffer from the fire. "I did not know what was happing the town had never had anything like this before". "me and my friend were just walking down the path there was smoke, but we kept walking soon my friend was on the ground dying by the second".

Soon the town rebuild it took some time for people came back. Even the animals soon came. Some people cannot forget the memory of the fire but they stay for the town. The trees will take time to rebuild but with people's support than the town can rebuild

Jordan

A bushfire is like a campfire but it is a lot bigger that a normal fire. What can make a bushfire starts is when someone does not take care of their land and it is very dry. It depends on the wind the fuel slop and if everything is high the bushfire could life threatening to humans and animals. You will report on the on bushfire for how many people died and much damage the fire did.   
Ash Wednesday was lit by some dry that people did not deal with. Ash Wednesday was the most dangerous bushfire in all of Australia. Well how most home burn down from embers attacks and they start new fires and it could harm offer local town or cites. When firefighter are going up agents fire they need special gear they need drones to see how much it has spread and they may need airplane to drop water onto the fire just if it has spread to much. A backburn is when the firefighter put little bit of fire around to get the fire under control.
Ash Wednesday was the most dangerous bushfire in in Australia because it did the most damage in Australia and had killed most families and people in Australia. Ash Wednesday di the most square hectares land burned down.
If the people had evacuated the communities would have being fine. If they had evacuated the commutes would have been fine and everyone family would have lived but they would have been homeless. But if they had a job they could have gotten more money and they could have got a new house and more food.  
Aash Wednesday started because off the dry grass that is what happened. If the people had taken care off the dry grass they would have lived.
In south Australia ash Wednesday had made it very hot that if you would just stand there you would be sweety in probably a couple minutes. The bushfire had made it over 40 degrees which is one of the hottest day done there but it was one of the day but it is always one of the coldest areas in all of Australia. 
If the people and families had evacuated the people would have lived but they would have being poor but if they had a job they could have got a new house and more food.
After ash Wednesday everyone had started to rebuild south Australia. So when ash Wednesday pasted everyone got together and they started to rebuild south Australia. They are going to make it brand new and better and stronger for any offer bushfire.


Felicity

A bushfire is a destructive and often fast spreading fire that occurs in areas of dense bush or vegetation, capable of causing widespread damage to wildlife, property, and natural landscapes while posing serious threats to human life and the environment.
The soils was so dehydrated so that makes the forests so dehydrated that they were effectively one giant Fuel load. I will report on how droughts are one of the many ways an bush fire happens and ash Wednesday fire, impact on community, A Two-State Emergency and the Response and Aftermath.

On the day temperatures soared to 43°C in Adelaide and Melbourne, creating the perfect recipe of catastrophe. The Ash Wednesday fire  was one of the most Destructive bush fires  ever. the Ash Wednesday fire of February 16,  1983, it was very hot and humid Some people still traumatised. 

A drought is one of the many things that make a bushfire a bushfire. The tragedy didn't begin on that Wednesday The bush fire had been Building up for months. An intense El Niño Weather pattern had been happening. El Niño Weather pattern is  significantly alters weather patterns around the world, often causing warmer, drier conditions in some regions and wetter conditions in others.
The winter and spring of 1983 were marked by extreme dryness and drought-like conditions.

The brutality of the blaze caught the residents and the firefighter's completely off guard. In Victoria, the holiday towns along the Great Ocean Road and communities nestled in Mount Macedon were rapidly overrun. In South Australia, the beautiful Adelaide hills and the  state's  south-east faced  terrifying walls of flame. People had little to no warning before their towns were surrounded.

The scale of disaster overwhelmed the  technology and resources of the 1980's. over 100 fires broke out across south Australia and Victoria in one day. The event overlooked national news for  successive for weeks. A public record wildfires and emergency  acknowledgement.

Battling the fire pushes company to the breaking point. The aftermath was a time of intense national grief. The loss of 75 lives, including over a dozen firefighters, was a destructive blow. The foundation drives and reconstruct funds raised millions of dollars to help communities entirely  rebuilt from the ashes.
 

Freya

Floods can be very dangerous. low-lying floodplains it's going to flood your low lying floodplains. The Queensland government say that when you don’t leave your home when there is a flood you will be flooded. This a reason why you have to leave your home when a flood warning comes up or you will be flooded in your home.
A flood is something where you have to leave because it can be dangerous because you can be killed from a flood. Which doctor Mia said you must leave your house when it's about to flood Lorax is very true when you need to leave homes when floods happen. When you have to leave homes from floods you in my opinion leave.
 
 
 
If you're getting inundated you must leave home before it floods you're home. If you want to not be flooded Doctor Mia aid don't wait for it to be fully flooded. Because when it's to high it's hard to leave homes because water is very strong when full so don’t wait. Your home can get flooded that’s really bad so leave before it gets very bad. Riverine flooding are really bad as well.
When it's high leave before you need to leaved it can overflow your house it's called flash flooding. Flash flooding is something you want to be in because it can be dangerous if you're in it. Flash flooding can cause overland flow to from floods.
If it a really bad flooding it can cause storm tides and coastal flooding. If it a bad coastal flooding says Doctor Mia she said they can turn into big tsunamis which is very bad. If it turns out all the water in the ocean pulls back that’s means there is a tsunamis'   it can wipe out a whole city.
Dam related flood is made out of lots of floods when it floods a lot can go into other dams which is very bad. When there is a dam realtered flood you must have to try to leave said doctor Mia. When there is a flood it can be good and it could be a really bad one which is not really good. When there is a flood emergency authorities state that evacuation is mandatory when a flood warning is issued warning you must leave before it gets bad.
When there is a flood it can be bad that’s something we don’t want for sure. Floods are something that’s really bad in my opinion.  So doctor Mia said that can get really dangerous. So when I flood come make sure you have a safety kit.



Harry

Cyclone Tracy was dangerous and killed 66 people it destroyed Darwin in 1974 just before Christmas morning. it was hot and humid and that was enough to brew up a cyclone. Everyone woke up except for the 66 people that died the people that survived woke up to a wasteland. When the sun rose on Christmas morning, families stepped outside to find their beautiful city completely ruined, with debris scattered everywhere. 
 
Most didn’t return because of post-traumatic stress disorder. PTSD is when someone has seen something or heard something that traumatised them. 
Hundreds of people were airlifted out of the cyclone because all the city's housing was flattened and destroyed by the wind. And they survived. A lot of people were hurt some nearly died. Following the storm's passage, the Royal Australian Air Force and commercial airlines launched a massive evacuation effort, airlifting over 30,000 homeless residents out of Darwin to safety in southern cities. 
All flights were cancelled because the wind speeds  at the airport that reached 217 km/h. And over time reached 240km/h. The winds were strong rough and terrifying and broke the airport to nothing. And the wind speed thermometer thingy broke. 
Most survivors constantly recall the loud noises and physical noises of metal tearing. The terrifying sound it made Survivors will never forget the sound of the fierce winds and the fact that they never received their Christmas presents. Many survivors still remember the deafening sounds of iron roofs ripping off houses and timber walls collapsing in the dark. 
The water has to be hot enough for a whole lot of water to evaporate. and too much water makes a storm cloud. and the rotation of earth makes it swirl and spin until it sort of looks like a tornado. A cyclone is a large storm system characterised by a low-pressure centre strong rotating winds and heavy rain. 
Category 4 is just before the furious cat 5 which can blow whole houses away. It is a low pressure storm capable of causing catastrophic damage 


Lakota

Bushfires are some of the most dangerous natural disasters. A bushfire can do lots of damage to people and their family. Bushfires need fuel, oxygen, and heat to make a lot more damage to fields and other places like  forests, back yards and places like that. Bushfires like ash Wednesday and black Saturday and the one that was 6 years ago the black summer.
after you hear a alert for a  bushfire stay awake keep a bucket full of water a bucket full of food and keep kids or family nearby. If the fire is nearby you should keep family on the phone so you can tell them that you  are safe or if you are hurt or maybe you need a place to stay. If your house is burnt down you should find all of the remainder stuff and pack it in the buckets or suitcase. Keep a Medi kit just in case of all of and emergence. 
In case of a bush fire near by do not let it get fuel, oxygen and heat. Bushfires get worse when they receive   fuel, oxygen and heat so i repeat please do not let a bush fire reach these.  before you have your house burnt down you should call your insurance and see if they can set you up with a temporary house.   People who have had their house burnt they are all rather in a temporary house or with family or even back in their house.                                                                           
People were in danger when the amber attack came around over 80% of home where destroyed .  They ember attack was so disruptive that bark leaves and parts of some houses.   The ember is traveling 7 kilometres ahead aka in front of the actual fire.  The amber was a very distrustful to the south east.
To fight the fire you need to make sure that it does not receive  fuel, oxygen, heat. To try and help if the fire is near you could try and fill lots of buckets of water and throw it at the fire. if the fire is heading towards you someone in you house needs to look out the window and one person needs to calm the kids. The fire will not hurt you but if is near by and you don’t know or any one else you might get partly burnt.
A bushfire is like a fire but it is way bigger and     scarier. Over the years bushfire have destroyed  many peoples mental health and peoples family's. people may know this but a bushfires can make people remember things and get depressed. If a fire is bigger than you would make to roast marshmallows than 
Not every fire that happens in Australia not all fires started in Australia.    In Northen Australia people are talking about Fire hawks, Fire hawks are birds that spread the fire.  If you see a Firehalk you should know that there is probably a fire near by. Fire hawks are a type of hawk that can not feel the heat if they touch a fresh burnt peace of would. so there is a bushfire near by you can dial 000. 


Willow

Floods are among the most destructive natural disasters capable of reshaping landscape and communities within hours.  Floods are really bad and can damage a lot of things and can destroy people's lives and make them horrifying. Floods are very bad for the environment and for crops. People can die from  driving through flood water and playing in it and can get really sick. 
 Cities built on floodplains face heightened risks of flooding due to their location on low lying land near rivers.  In Melbourne’s 1934 flood, every creek and river broke its banks, and the Yarra River recorded its highest flow nearly 97,000 million litres in a single day causing widespread damage to people and buildings. This event highlights how floodplains cities are especially vulnerable during extreme weather, as natural waterways can quickly overflow, overwhelming and displacing communities.  Understanding these risks is crucial for urban planning, as it can guide the development of flood mitigation strategies to protect lives and property in flood prone cities.
Climate and weather patterns influence  flood impacts before flooding even began. Several climate drivers has had injuries from floods and destroyed impacts. The climate drivers the catchments were really dangerous of the rainfalls. Heavy rain can cause slow moving water can stay there for three days heavy rainfalls e  that catchment before it drains into a river moving up slower that can last weeks that is really dangerous and devastating for the climate divers.
 

Sommer

 Scientists Wally Jill said that on Christmas Eve in the afternoon it was 1974 It was boiling hot, very muggy and heavy with anticipation in the wind. The wind also blew across people's heads. Little children were restless but mixed with excited. By midnight festivals were over because the wind had picked up and blew everything across the street. People just thought that the wind had just picked up but they soon realised on the radio Cyclone Tracy had taken a sharp turn towards Darwin. When they noticed air a had taken over and blow down houses that were fragile enough and not build strong like all the houses you see around today.
In this report I will analyse the amount of destruction, the operation of the Navy help, A city flattened, track of the storm and the front  pages, an unsettling Christmas Eve
Survivors that survived Cyclone Tracy can make a whole story and can maybe get it published to the world to see how traumatising it was to them. The wind did not sound like the sound of the storm it sounded like a jet engine at their front porch. They were in absolute horror when it sounded like last twisting and cracking metal screeching and timber cracking. The survivors family said "it sounded like a giant throwing a jet engine Through our house and the cyclone tore our house apart."
In the following days people kept calling the navy for help to quickly get an ambulance to save others. After people used up all of the ambulances for help, people started to realise they could call the navy for help. When the navy started to notice random numbers started to suddenly pop up on their phones. They soon started to pick up their phones and started to cry because they should have picked up sooner because people where dying due to loss of blood. When the Navy heard that people were dying since they were not picking up their phones.
After Cyclone Tracy construction sites disappeared, destroyed buildings were destroyed everything was just gone. The cyclone tore through the town and snapped trees like toothpicks.  Took two story houses like a bowling balls hitting the pins. People had to get in their basements to survive. As a result sixty - six total fatalities were occurred. People were devastated about their losses of family members and friends.
People were not worrying about cyclone Tracy that much because they thought they would just be passed by cyclone Tracy. 6am on  December 24  at Darwin cyclone Tracy took a sharp turn. When cyclone Tracy took the sharp turn cyclone Tracy was  a category 4 when she had the really sharp turn. Cyclone Tracy ended in the middle of Darwin the day was December 26 and the time was 10 in the morning.
The front pages are about how cyclone Tracy wiped out Darwin and destroyed precious valuables that belong to people. The front pages are actually newspapers which at one point in the olden days newspapers were the news because people didn't invent televisions yet. On the third newspaper it says how did we survive the ferry, a ferry is a big boat that can carry cars across to the other side of the river. Last but not least on the first newspaper it says "cyclone Tracy the killer cyclone for Darwin"



Carolyn

FLOODS INTRODUCTION.
 
Floods occur when water covers the land that is normally  dry. All floods are different even if it is within the same range or catchment.   Because the Brisbane river is an important part of flooding, we will be reporting on its catchment. This report will analyse the relationship between storm tides and coastal flooding, the geography of the Brisbane River System catchment, the human and environmental costs of floods, and modern technology used in flood mitigation.
UNDERSTANDING COASTAL FLOODING AND STORM TIDES.
 
Storm tides are where the ocean over whelms us with the strong surge of water driven by low pressure, with strong winds and high tides. In warm coastal cities, they are exposed to tropical cyclones with their low pressure and strong winds, meaning cyclones are able to create storm surges and storm tides across the whole area. King Tides, they are exceptionally high, natural astronomical tides that occur when the Sun, Moon, and Earth align during their regular orbits. They happen in calm, clear weather. A storm surge, is a dangerous mound of ocean water pushed landward solely by strong winds and low pressure from a cyclone. Although the amount of danger there is, it depends on the storm tide, both a storm surge and a normal sea level tide. Storm tides and Coastal flooding are very closely related to each other.
THE BRISBANE RIVER CATCHMENT.
 
The Brisbane River System catchment is massive because it is closely around the same size as East Timor. When rain falls anywhere near the Brisbane River, the water slowly makes its way to its catchment. A catchment is a vast area of land in which rainfall comes to a singular river system, for example, the Brisbane River System. The Brisbane River has three main structures to it, which influences the drinking water all across Queensland.  
THE HUMAN COST.
 
 When people come face to face with a flood, many lives, food, and economical risk for animals environment are lost brutally. When a flood reaches 15cm height, it has enough power to take down an adult. While 30cm height is enough to make vehicles float. In between the 2011 and 2022, 46 innocent lives were taken, mostly due to vehicles attempting to cross over flooded road way. When a flood takes place, it is very likely for people to get caught in overflow or die to suffocation from being underwater too long, many lives, animals and building are destroyed thanks to flooding.
THE FUTURE OF FLOODING.
 
To prevent floods from becoming more disastrous and mitigation, people from the Bureau of Meteorology are analysing the weather patterns so that we can be utmost prepared when the flood arrives. As global temperatures rise, a warmer atmosphere holds more moisture. Consequently, this increases the risk that rain could come much easier and come down harder. Additionally, sea levels go up during the heat globally around the world. Consequently, successful flood mitigation relies on automated technology and remote sensors to monitor river statistics independently.   


Daina

Introduction
There are many  dangerous flood that can cost lives. Dr melange says floods can occur  at any moment which scientist of .Australia give lots of warnings to people. This is why people need to be vary causing when flood happen. This is why people always have to go to shelter for these tips of things

The human cost
Floods  are really  dangerous they can take lots of land , lives and homes  away and that makes lots of injures if people get hurt .this can lead to people being homeless and having no food and this can be really dangerous.

The history of disaster
In February 1893 three different floods hit Brisbane. A big tropical triggered big rainfall and pushes the Brisbane river inland and casing the second most powerful pick drowning risk .this could lead to property tourism revenue and fisheries disruption.

Coastal flooding
floods are  extremely dangerous because the waves are very big and tall. Coastal flooding starts bye a Storm surge  and it has extreme weather and low. And this can lead to health problems and lots of lives lost . If a two storms surge arrives at low tide he impact might be mid. If that is the same surge comes at the peak of a high spring tide.


Max

What is a flood
 
A flood is a natural disaster that destroys houses land and can harm wildlife and peoples towns. Most floods are dangerous some floods are small some really big that they wipe out town and city. Consequently, once the floodwaters recede, debris like loose wire is left scattered across the landscape. When the flood is gone there is wire everywhere then wild life can get caught in them. As a result when a flood happens it can get rid of crops for our country and cannot grow back because of debris on farms and there is water on the ground so floods  can do a lot of damage to anything that they wash away.





Riverine flooding

Riverine floods are when the river over flows and comes out the banks of the rivers. For more information when there is saturated soil then the water will start spreading all over the ground  then it will flood. In cold places the riverine floods are cause in winter by ice jams  when the bank is not big enough for the ice to fit through and flow down the river. There is health risk of flooding and loss of life then to prevent it you can have flood walls, flood control dams and reservoirs. after the flood you can have flood insurance.

Flash flooding

Flash floods is when the drains over flow and the water that flows in the drains will burst out and cover the road. What causes the flash floods is when there is surface runoff ,rough terrain and then when the rain comes the surface runoff the water will run down the steep part of the land then it will flash flood. Because when you have rough terrain it will fill the terrain then make a wash out. How to prevent loss of life or a bit of livestock you will need to have early warning systems zoning & mapping then if you need public education and plans.

Tidal flooding

Tidal floods is when a tsunami has just happens the ocean start blowing waves into the land making a high tide to make it start flooding. It will be by tsunamis giant ocean waves. It will cause property damage and port and pier damage.
