Name: Jaycee 
 
Text: 

 
A bushfire can cause many problems to both people, and environment. For a bushfire to occur, it needs heat, fuel and oxygen. A bushfire can do lots of harm to people, animals and the ecosystem. In this report I will talk about Ash Wednesday, the drought, impact on people, response and aftermath and what changed. 

The massive bushfire that swept throughout south Australia and Victoria known as Ash Wednesday. The tragedy didn’t just begin on Wednesday it had been building for months. Scientist Keish found that usually a disaster only spreads across one region, but this firestorm stretched across a devastating amount of land.  The firestorm will forever be known as Ash Wednesday. 

An intense El Nino weather pattern meant the winter, and spring of 1982 were incredibly dry. The soil was parched and the forest were dry. Dr locker says that on the day of Ash Wednesday temperatures ascended to 43 degrees Celsius in Adelaide and Melbourne. These high temperatures created a perfect recipe for a disaster. 

The cruelty of the flames caught both the community and firefighters off guard.  In Victoria, holiday towns along the great ocean road and communities nestled in Mount Macedon were rapidly overrun. Dr poodle says that the stunning Adelaide hills in south Australia, and the state's southeast fast hideous walls of flame. The public had little to warning before their neighbourhood was surrounded.  

Battling the flames forced agencies to their breaking point. For the time being 1983, emergency services from different locality and different states, used an entirely diverse radio system. Mr wakadoodle found that there was 75 people lost their lives including over 12 firefighters. The aftermath was an era of intense national mourning. As a direct 

As a result, Australia assembled standardised emergency radios networks. unfortunately, Ash Wednesday thoroughly rewrote the rulebook for firefighting in Australia. Scientist B found Fire hoses and hydrants, which previously didn’t fit together if they were from different regions, were standardised nationally so any truck could connect to any water source. To conclude this report mapping and early alert systems were extremely improved to ensure the neighbourhood had earlier warnings. 

 

Name: Sommer. M 
 
Text: In this report I will analyse the amount of destruction, the operation of the Navy help, A city flattened, track of the storm and the front pages. Scientists' wally said that on Christmas Eve in the afternoon it was 1974 It was boiling hot, very muggy and heavy with anticipation in the wind. The wind also blew across people's heads. Little children were restless but mixed with excited. By midnight festivals were over because the wind had picked up and blew everything across the street. People just thought that the wind had just picked up but they soon realised on the radio Cyclone Tracy had taken a sharp turn towards Darwin. When they noticed air a had taken over and blow down houses that were fragile enough and not build strong like all the houses you see around today. Survivors that survived Cyclone Tracy can make a whole story and can maybe get it published to the world to see how traumatising it was to them. The wind did not sound like winter then it sounded like a jet engine at their front porch. They were in absolute horror when it sounded like last twisting and cracking metal screeching and timber cracking. The survivor's family said, "it sounded like a giant throwing a jet engine Through our house and the cyclone tore our house apart." In the following days people kept calling 000 to quickly get an ambulance to save others. After people used up all the ambulances for help, people started to realise they could call the navy for help. When the navy started to notice random numbers started to suddenly pop up on their phones. They soon started to pick up their phones and started to cry because they should have picked up sooner because people were dying due to loss of blood. When the Navy heard that people were dying since they were not picking up their phones. After Cyclone Tracy construction sites disappeared, destroyed buildings were destroyed everything was just gone. The cyclone tore through the town and snapped trees like toothpicks.  Took two story houses like a bowling ball hitting the pins. People had to get in their basements to survive. As a result, sixty - six total fatalities had occurred. People were devastated about their losses of family members and friends. People were not worrying about cyclone Tracy that much because they thought they would just be passed by cyclone Tracy. 6am on December 24 at Darwin cyclone Tracy took a sharp turn. When cyclone Tracy took the sharp turn cyclone Tracy was a category 4. Cyclone Tracy ended in the middle of Darwin the day was December 26th, and the time was 10 in the morning. The front pages are about how cyclone Tracy wiped out Darwin and destroyed precious valuables that belong to people. The front pages are newspapers which at one point in the olden day's newspapers were the news because people didn't invent televisions yet. On the third newspaper it says how did we survive the ferry; a ferry is a big boat that can carry cars across to the other side of the river. Finally on the first newspaper it says "cyclone Tracy the killer cyclone for Darwin" 




Name: Felicity  
 
Text: A bush fire is very bad fire The soils so dry the forests so dry that they were effectively one giant Fuel load. I will report on how droughts are one of the many ways a bush fire happens and Ash Wednesday fire, impact on community, A Two-State Emergency and the Response and Aftermath. 

On the day temperatures soared to 43°C in Adelaide and Melbourne, creating the perfect recipe of catastrophe. The Ash Fire Wednesday was one of the most Destructive bush fires ever. the Ash Wednesday fire of February 16, 1983, it was very hot and humid Some people still traumatised. 

A drought is one of the many things that make a bushfire a bushfire. The tragedy didn't begin on that Wednesday. The bush fire had been Building up for months. An intense El Niño Weather pattern had been happening. The winter and spring of 1983 was extremely dry. 

The brutality of the blaze caught the residents and the firefighter's completely off guard. In Victoria, the holiday towns along the Great Ocean Road and communities nestled in mount Macedon were rapidly overrun. In south Australia, the beautiful Adelaide hills and the state's south-east faced terrifying walls of flame. People had little to no warning before their towns were surrounded. 

The scale of disaster overwhelmed the technology and resources of the 1980's. over 100 fires broke out across south Australia and Victoria in one day. The event overlooked national news for successive for weeks. A public record wildfires and emergency acknowledgement. 


Battling the fire pushes company to the breaking point. The aftermath was a time of intense national grief. The loss of 75 lives, including over a dozen firefighters, was a destructive blow. The foundation drives and reconstruct funds raised millions of dollars to help communities entirely rebuilt from the ashes. 


Name:jordan 
 
Text:  

intro 

A bushfire is like a campfire but it id a lot bigger that a normal fire. What can make a bushfire starts is when someone does not take care of there land and it is very dry. It depends on the wind the fuel slop and if everything is high the bushfire could life threatening to humans and animals. You will report on the on bushfire for how many people died and much damage the fire did. 

 
Intruction  

Ash Wednesday was lit by some dry that people did not deal with. Ash Wednesday was the most dangerous bushfire in all of Australia. Well how most home burn down from embers attacks and they start new fires and it could harm offer local town or cites. When firefighter are going up agents fire they need special gear they need drones to see how much it has spread and they may need airplane to drop water onto the fire just if it has spread to much. A backburn is when the firefighter put little bit of fire around to get the fire under control. 

 

Ash wednesday 

Ash Wednesday happened in 2019 to 2020 it happened in Victoria on 16 of February. Ash Wednesday heat got 43 degrees. Ash Wednesday killed 75 people in the bushfire. Ash Wednesday burnt down 210,000 hectares of land. 

 

Impact on commutes  

Ash Wednesday happened in 2019 to 2020 it happened in Victoria on 16 of February. Ash Wednesday heat got 43 degrees. Ash Wednesday killed 75 people in the bushfire. Ash Wednesday burnt down 210,000 hectares of land 

The deep drought 

Ash Wednesday happened in 2019 to 2020 it happened in Victoria on 16 of February. Ash Wednesday heat got 43 degrees. Ash Wednesday killed 75 people in the bushfire. Ash Wednesday burnt down 210,000 hectares of land 

 

43 degrees in Adalaide  

In south Australia in Adalaide it got the hottest day it has being in Adalaide. It got 43 degrees which actually is one of the hottest day in Australia. 


75 people died 

Ash Wednesday killed 75 people because they did not really not get a warning. They did not evacuate because it was building for months. The bushfire was unpracticable because. If there was no wind that day they would have evacuated and no one would have died. 

2400 homes destroyed  

If ash Wednesday had been seen early all of the places had survived. But because they didn't see it that why there was so much damage done to Adalaide and so many people died to. }



Name:savannah 
 
Text: 
 

Floods are dangerous they take live and are natural disaster. And homes are taken away because of flood they can get up people roofs and many live have been taken from floods. And there is lots of road damages after flood and crops and animal are destroyed. And habitat loss or washed-out bridges. 

In this report I will analyse I will talk about riverine flood and what is a flood and storm tide and coastal flooding and flash flooding and overflow. So, you can have all the information you need. 

flood is when the ground has soaked up all the water. It starts to start to runoff or when the rivers or dams overflow, so it starts expanding. On the runoff flowing rapidly. On the surface the entire area of land. And it can get so bad it can get to people's roof or even over their roofs. 

In this report I will talk about a riverine flood are not fast and it can be caused by ice jams dam or levee failure. Or saturated soils and after that can lead to sudden displacement or business disruption can happen. So, people should get flood insurance and a flood system control and an early warning system and we should have more flood control dams and reservoirs. 

In the text it says the rain is not the only problem the ocean is to so that mean that the sea is one the problems to. when a weather system comes cyclones push their way to the coast and they push the ocean surface higher. and crates a storm surge and the danger is the storm tide. the combination of a storm surge and an astronomical tide. 

but flash flood is very fast and it in their name and when there is lots of rainfall 

And there is normally no warning time. And flash blood can also happen by a dam wall breaking or surface runoff steep terrain. And after that it can lead to washed out bridges water supply issues or destroyed roads. So, we should get an early warning system and after every flood we should help pick up all the mess and make sure everyone is ok. 



Name: Lucas HECK 
 
Text: instruction  

A flood is a very danger est it can pull cars, kill people and have mane effects on people. Such as social Impacts, business fallers, bad and good things and Inequality in recover.  

 The Social Impacts on people 

 In the 2022 there was 200000 mental health crises reported. Also, an extra 60000 people reported that had brain trammer. 

 hint 46 lives were lost during the 2011 floods and 2020 alone. Also, a different impact nearly doubling the amount of violence.   The Deloitte reported $4.4 to A$4.5 billion dollars in property. More than twice of the value of all property damage normal flood in 2022. Which caused mental health disorder disease and social impacts on people. Making people go insane if the rise of insure costs      

The good and bad effects of floods  

It trigged fish breeding to double replenish wetland habitats and distribute sediment. However, in altered river systems, floods become catastrophic pollution for the inverment. Proved by Mr wang from Pakistan also he noted it is bad for the world. 

The Economic Toll  

The 2022 it generated A$6.4 billion in insured losses alone. Across more than 300,000 claims in the one single flood in 2022. World Bank CEO estimated the total flood impact on Queensland. Was about US$15.9 billion dollars.  

Inequality in Recovery  

The also affected Lower-income households' renters. Because housing on floodplains is often cheaper. Proved by Mr Tim in China he said that renter house owners might go bankrupt. structurally over-rep

The water has to be warm enough for a whole lot of water to evaporate. and too mutch water makes a storm cloud. and the rotation of earth makes it swirl and spin until it sort of looks like a tornado. A cyclone is a large storm system characterized by a low-pressure centre strong rotating winds and heavy rain. 

Intro 

Cyclone Tracy was dangerous and killed 66 people it destroyed Darwin in 1974 just before Christmas morning. it was hot and humid and that was enough to brew up a cyclone. Everyone woke up except for the 66 people that died the people that survived woke up to a wasteland. The sun illuminated the wasteland and they had to leave because of the high water. 

PTSD 

Most didn’t return because of post-traumatic stress disorder. PTSD is when you have seen something or head something that traumatized them. 

Operation navy help 

Hundreds of people where air lifted out of the water. And they survived. the big floods from the cyclones where dangerous. A lot of people were hurt some nearly died. 

Wind speed 


All non-military flights were cancelled. because the wind speeds recorded at airports went up to 217km/h. And over time reached 240km/h. The winds were strong rough and terrifying. 

Sound of destruction 

Most survivors constantly recall the loud noises and physical noises of metal tearing. The terrifying sound it made. The fierce winds. The fact they never got presents for Christmas eve 

Cyclone Tracy was a category 4 cyclone 

Category 4 is just before the furious cat 5 witch can blow whole houses away. It is a low pressure storm capable of causing catastrophic damage 
 

   

Name: Daina 

Text: 

Introduction  

  

There are many  dangerous flood that can cost lives. Dr melange says floods can acer at any moment which scientist  of .Australia give lots of warnings to people. This is why people need to be vary  causses when flood happen. 

 

Costal flooding  

floods are vary  vary dangerous because the waves are very big and tall. Coastal flooding  stars bye a Stom surge  and it has extreme weather and low. And this can lead to health problems and lots of lives lost . If a two storms surge arrives at low tide the impact might be mid. If that is the same surge comes at the peak of a high spring tide. 

 

A history of disaster 

In February 1893 three different floods hit Brisbane. A big tropical cyclone triggered big rainfall and pushes the Brisbane river inland and casing the second most powerful pick drowning risk .this could lead to property tourism revenue and fisheries disruption. 

 

Floods  are really  dangerous they can take lots of land lives and homes  away and that makes lots of injures if people get hurt .this can lead to people being homeless and having no food and this can be really dangerous. 

 

The End of Complacency 

Before January 1974 an unusually wet spring had already saturated the vast Brisbane River catchment. When Cyclone Wanda arrived, it dragged a deeply unstable monsoonal trough over the region. Bureau of Meteorology records show a 5-day rainfall of 500–900 mm across the metropolitan area.  

 

occurs when rivers overflow their banks due to excessive rainfall, rapid snowmelt, or obstructions in the river system. This can lead to significant damage to infrastructure, homes, and ecosystems. Understanding the causes and impacts of riverine floods is crucial for effective mitigation strategies that protect communities and environments from these natural disasters. 

 

 Name: Lakota 
 
Text: Bushfires are some of the most dangers natural disasters. A bushfire can do lots of damage to people and their family. Bushfires need fuel, oxygen, and heat to make a lot more damage to fields and other places like forests, back yards and places like that. Bushfires like Ash Wednesday and Black Saturday and the one that was 6 years ago the black summer.             

 

 

If you hear an alert for a bushfire stay awake keep a bucket full of water a bucket full of food and keep kids or family nearby. If the fire is nearby, you should keep family on the phone so you can tell them that you are safe or if you are hurt or maybe you need a place to stay. If your house is burnt down, you should find all the remainder stuff and pack it in the buckets or suitcase. Keep a Medi kit just in case of call and emergence. In case of a bush fire near by do not let it get fuel, oxygen and heat. Bushfires get worse when they receive   fuel, oxygen and heat so I repeat plz do not let a bush fire reach these.  If you have your house burnt down, you should call your insurance and see if they can set you up with a temporary house.   People who have had their house burnt they are all rather in a temporary house or with family or even back in their house.  

 

 

People were in danger when the amber attack came around over 80% of home where destroyed.  They ember attack was so disruptive that bark leaves and parts of some houses.   The ember is traveling 7 kilometres ahead aka in front of the actual fire.  The amber was a very distrustful to the southeast. 

 

 

To fight the fire, you need to make sure that it does not receive fuel, oxygen, heat. To try and help if the fire is near you could try and fill lots of buckets of water and throw it at the fire. If the fire is heading towards you someone in your house needs to look out the window and one person needs to calm the kids. The fire will not hurt you but if is nearby and you don’t know or anyone else you might get partly burnt. 

 

 

A bushfire is like a fire, but it is way bigger and     scarier. Over the years bushfire have destroyed many people's mental health and people's families. people may know this but a bushfire can make people remember things and get depressed. If a fire is bigger than you would make to roast marshmallows than call 000. 

 

 

Not every fire that happens in Australia not all fires started in Australia.    In Northen Australia people are talking about Fire hawks, Fire hawks are birds that spread the fire.  If you see a Firehalk you should know that there is probably a fire nearby. Fire hawks are a type of hawk that cannot feel the heat if they touch a fresh burnt piece of would. 

 

 
Name: Sommer. M 
 
Text: In this report I will analyse the amount of destruction, the operation of the Navy help, A city flattened, track of the storm and the front pages. Scientists' wally said that on Christmas Eve in the afternoon it was 1974 It was boiling hot, very muggy and heavy with anticipation in the wind. The wind also blew across people's heads. Little children were restless but mixed with excited. By midnight festivals were over because the wind had picked up and blew everything across the street. People just thought that the wind had just picked up but they soon realised on the radio Cyclone Tracy had taken a sharp turn towards Darwin. When they noticed air a had taken over and blow down houses that were fragile enough and not build strong like all the houses you see around today. Survivors that survived Cyclone Tracy can make a whole story and can maybe get it published to the world to see how traumatising it was to them. The wind did not sound like winter then it sounded like a jet engine at their front porch. They were in absolute horror when it sounded like last twisting and cracking metal screeching and timber cracking. The survivor's family said, "it sounded like a giant throwing a jet engine Through our house and the cyclone tore our house apart." In the following days people kept calling 000 to quickly get an ambulance to save others. After people used up all the ambulances for help, people started to realise they could call the navy for help. When the navy started to notice random numbers started to suddenly pop up on their phones. They soon started to pick up their phones and started to cry because they should have picked up sooner because people were dying due to loss of blood. When the Navy heard that people were dying since they were not picking up their phones. After Cyclone Tracy construction sites disappeared, destroyed buildings were destroyed everything was just gone. The cyclone tore through the town and snapped trees like toothpicks.  Took two story houses like a bowling ball hitting the pins. People had to get in their basements to survive. As a result, sixty - six total fatalities had occurred. People were devastated about their losses of family members and friends. People were not worrying about cyclone Tracy that much because they thought they would just be passed by cyclone Tracy. 6am on December 24 at Darwin cyclone Tracy took a sharp turn. When cyclone Tracy took the sharp turn cyclone Tracy was a category 4. Cyclone Tracy ended in the middle of Darwin the day was December 26th, and the time was 10 in the morning. The front pages are about how cyclone Tracy wiped out Darwin and destroyed precious valuables that belong to people. The front pages are newspapers which at one point in the olden day's newspapers were the news because people didn't invent televisions yet. On the third newspaper it says how did we survive the ferry; a ferry is a big boat that can carry cars across to the other side of the river. Finally on the first newspaper it says "cyclone Tracy the killer cyclone for Darwin" 

 
Name: willow  
 
Text: 

Floods are among the most destructive natural disasters capable of reshaping landscape and communities within hours. Floods are bad and can damage a lot of things and can destroy people's life 'and make them horrifying. Floods are unbelievably bad for the environment and for crops. People can die from driving through flood water and playing in it and can get really sick. 

Cities built on floodplain faces heightened risks of flooding due to their location on low lying land near rivers. In Melbourne’s 1934 flood, every creek and river broke its banks, and the Yarra River recorded its highest flow 97,000 million litres in a single day causing widespread damage to people and buildings. This event highlights how floodplain cities are especially vulnerable during extreme weather, as natural waterways can quickly overflow, overwhelming and d village students, providing skills workshops. Corporate volunteering not only supports individual growth but also fosters community development. By equipping students with practical knowledge. Therefore, volunteering a meaningful social impact by combining business resources with community needs.  Understanding these risks is crucial for urban planning, as it can guide the development of flood mitigation strategies to protect lives and property in flood prone cities. 

Corporate volunteering programs enhance social impact within local communities. Employees of a major Australian bank regularly participate in mentorship programs for underprivileged students, providing skills workshops. Corporate volunteering not only supports individual growth but also fosters community development. By equipping students with practical knowledge. Therefore, volunteering a meaningful social impact by combining business resources with community needs. 

Climate and weather patterns influence flood impacts before flooding even began. Several climate divers had died from natural disasters and destroyed impacts. The climate divers the catchments were dangerous of the wind speed for rainfalls. Slow moving water can stay for three days heavy rainfalls that catchment before it drains into a river moving up slower   

 that can last weeks that is dangerous and devastating for the climate divers. 

 

 
Name: Freya 
Text: Floods can be very dangerous. When you live in a ditch it's going to flood your home so don’t live in a ditch. The Queensland government say that when you don’t leave your home when there is a flood you will be flooded. This a reason why you must leave your home when a flood warning comes up or you will be flooded in your home. 

A flood is something where you must leave because it can be dangerous because you can be killed from a flood. Which Doctor Manon bannerman said you must leave your house when it's about to flood Doctor Diva Daina and Joppys Jacey, Frepita Freya is very true when you need to leave homes when floods happen. When you must leave homes from floods you MUST leave. 

If you're getting inundated you must leave home before it floods, you're home. If you want to not be flooded Doctor Diva Daina and Joppys Jacey, Frepita Freya said don't wait for it to be fully flooded. Because when it's to high it's hard to leave homes because water is very strong when full so don’t wait. Your home can get flooded that’s bad so leave before it gets very bad. Riverine flooding is bad as well. 


When it's high leave before you need to leaved it can overflow your house it's called flash flooding. Flash flooding is something you want to be in because it can be dangerous if you're in it. Flash flooding can cause overland flow to from floods. 



If it a bad flooding it can cause storm tides and coastal flooding. If it a bad coastal flooding says Doctor Diva Daina and Joppys Jacey, Frepita Freya they said they can turn into big tsunamis which is very bad. If it turns into a big tsunami, it can wipe out a whole city. 


Dam related flood is made of lots of floods when it floods a lot can go into other dams which is very bad. When there is a dam realtered flood, you must have to try to leave said Doctor Diva Daina and Joppys Jacey, Frepita Freya. When there is a flood, it can be good and it could be a bad one which is not good. When there is a flood warning you must leave before it gets bad. 


When there is a flood, it can be bad that’s something we don’t want for sure. Floods are something that’s bad in my opinion.  So, Doctor Diva Daina and Joppys Jacey, Frepita Freya say that can get dangerous. So, when I flood come make sure you have a safety kit. 

 

 
Name: Carolyn  
 
Text: 

 
Floods occur when water covers the land that is normally dry. All floods are different even if it is within the same range or catchment. In this text report we will be talking about coastal flooding, storm tides and how they are related to each other. And on how the after math on a flood can impact the local communities. And about the technology advancement for creating a steadier focus on floods.  Because the Brisbane River is an important part of flooding, we will be talking about its catchment. In this report, I will be discussing about storm tides, coastal flooding and viewing over on how they are related to each other, about the Brisbane River System, and the human cost, together with the future of flooding. 

Storm tides are where the ocean overwhelms us with the strong surge of water driven by low pressure, with strong winds and high tides. In warm coastal cities, it is expose to tropical cyclones with their low pressure and strong winds, meaning cyclones are able to create tsunamis and flood across the whole area, which are known as King Tides. Although the amount of danger there is, it depends on the storm tide, both a storm surge and a normal sea level tide. Storm tides and Coastal flooding are very closely related to each other. 

The Brisbane River System catchment is massive because it is closely around the same size as East Timor. When rain falls anywhere near the Brisbane River, the water slowly makes its way to its catchment. A catchment is a vast area of land in which rainfall comes to a singular river system, for example, the Brisbane River System. The Brisbane River has three main structures to it, which influences the drinking water across Queensland.   

When people come face to face with a flood, many lives, food, and economical risk for animals' environment are lost brutally. When a flood reaches 15cm height, it has enough power to take down an adult. While 30cm height is enough to make vehicles float. In between the 2011 and 2022, 46 innocent lives were taken, mostly due to vehicles attempting to cross over flooded roadway. When a flood takes place, it is very likely for people to get caught in overflow or die to suffocation from being under water to long, many lives, animals and building are destroyed thank to flood. 

To prevent floods from becoming more disastrous and mitigation, people from the Bureau of Meteorology are analysing the weather patterns so that we can be utmost prepared when the flood arrives. When it gets warmer, there is more moisture meaning that, when it gets warmer, furthermore there is more potential risk that rain could come much easier and come down harder. Additionally, sea levels go up during the heat globally around the world. Generally, preventing or planning for a flood need help from mechanisms inspect river statistics in separation from people. 

 
Name: elouise  
 
Text: Floods are very dangerous and they take a while to get rid of. A flood is when a river catchment overflows either from blockage or way too much rain. Dr red Kool-Aid pickle juice from the university of pickles has found out that when there is water that’s falling from the sky in Australia it was likely to last a few days in 2011. the people who left soon enough and never came back from the trauma of the floods. 

 

February 2022 in southeast Queensland flooded with water. 3 days passed and the water levels had already reached 795 mm of rain. Dr rick Ashley from the university of rick rolling found the rain had reached the rainfall of 444.6 mm. 2022 had broken a world record of the wettest month. Queensland never would forget the incident of this flood 

 

The 2011 floods were devastating all the homes were washed away and roads had been drenched with water. 75% of Brisbane had to go through this unlucky event where some of these family's died too. Once there was a month of rain every catchment has been filled. Dr HDMI from the university of cords says that 33 people died in Queensland during the 2011 floods. 

 

Few weeks till January in 1974 the end of complacency had started. The Brisbane river catchment could not handle any more water because the water had already had enough moistness  but the rain kept coming in the catchment no one knew how  many days until it started flooding .homers donuts from the university of pink sprinkled donuts says that the records show a whole devastating 5 days of heavy rainfall of 500-900mm of rain in the Ipswich and Brisbane area. The floods peak moment was 5.45 meters about 8500 homes were flooded and destroyed. 

 

February 1893 3 specific floods hit Brisbane a tropical cyclone caused large amounts of rain. at the city gauge 8.35 meters the second highest record. Job application from the university of jobs says that the water destroyed both two of these bridges broke the Victoria bridge and the Indooroopilly bridge. The flood rounded up to 11 people's lives lost the bureau of mythology predicted that £2,000,000 exceptional sum for the colonial stage.  

 

Lower catchments of the Brisbane area formed 3 physical appearances greatly influence how the understanding when lots of rain comes in the area. Brisbane rivers catchment covering roughly 15,000 square kilometres. dr meme man from the university of evacuate the facility says water that falls within the river catchment against the Great Dividing Range. The Water that fell from the sky into the catchment has never been forgotten or forgiven. 


Without understanding the river itself you need to understand the Brisbane River flood story. Brisbane's flood risk is high, and it can come and time because of the risk. Dr David Basuki from the university of ruining kids ROBLOX lives said El Niño (Enso) is an essential Australia year to year climate. You can understand the river by reading news reports or visiting websites. 

 

 

 Name: maxwell 
 
Text: different types of floods 
 

A flood is a natural disaster that destroys houses land and can harm wildlife and people's towns. Most floods are dangerous some floods are small some big that they wipe out town and city. The flood can carry fences with it and material with it. then when the flood is gone the n there is wire everywhere then wildlife can get court in them. then when a flood happens it can get rid of crops for our country and cannot grow back because of materials on farms ad there is water on the ground so floods can do a lot of damage to anything that they wash away. 

 

Riverine floods are when the river overflows and comes out the banks of the rivers. Then when there is saturated soi then the water will start spreading all over the ground then it will flood. Ice jams can block the way of the river then the water will spill out of the river and start overflowing. There is health risk of flooding and loss of life then to prevent it you can have flood walls, flood control dams and reservoirs. Then after the flood you can have flood insurance. 

 

Flash floods are when the drains over flow and the water that flows in the drains will burst out and cover the road. What causes the flash floods is when there is surface runoff, rough terrain and then when the rain comes the surface runoff the water will run down the steep part of the land then it will flash flood. Then when you have rough terrain it will fill the terrain then make a wash out. How to prevent a live or a bit of livestock you will need to have early warning systems zoning & mapping then if you need public education and plans. 

 

Tidal floods are when the ocean over flows the cause of it is when the ocean overflows it is from when it rains the ocean will fill up a lot and start flooding. It will be by samurais and storm surges. It will cause property damage and port and pier damage. 

 

 Name: Jacey-Mae 
 
Text: Introduction  

  

In this report I will analyse flash flooding, coastal flooding, riverine flooding and the 2011 floods. This report will include pictures, fast facts and dot points. It will also tell you a few different  story's. 

 

A City Built on a Floodplain 

Brisbane is known as a river city its size is up to 1500 square kilometres catchment. Queensland recognition authority studies Breau of memology.  Engineering has improved the sheer volume delivered by tropical Queensland. This is why floods could reck a lot of things. Also, floods could be very freighting and scary. 

what is a flood 

A Flood is when it has been raining for lots of days or even weeks floods can be very dangerous because they can destroy buildings and kill or injure lots of people. There are three different type of floods riverine flooding, coastal flooding and flash flooding.  Dr Diva Daina, Dr frepita Freya and Dr Jippsy Jacey say that floods are going to happen very soon so be ready.  They also say that Floods can't only take your houses but they can cause you mental pain as well as loss of life. 

 

Flash flooding 

 Flash flooding can be very dangerous because they can destroy roads and reck bridges. Also, they can cause loss of life or health problems it is caused by sudden snow melts, surface runoff or step tureen. This is why you need to pack a safety bag with food, water and a first aid kit. To prevent it you can have early warning systems and an escape plan. 

 

Coastal flooding 

coastal flooding is very very dangerous because the waves are very tall and powerful. Coastal flooding is caused by a storm surge or tsunami. They can cause loss of life or health issues They can also cause fishing issues and beach overflow. To prevent coastal flooding, you could build a metal wall to keep the water out. 

 

 

Riverine Flooding 

Riverine flooding is the most widespread flood in Australia. It happens when saturated heavy rainfall fell for days, dam failure, ice jams and levee failure. Riverine flooding is where there are ice jams or dam overflows. The consequences might be loss of life or health risks or maybe even property damage. To prevent it you can have natural based solution. 

 

The 2011 floods 

the 2010 to the 2011 floods were described as the coolest natural disaster. There was not a single storm but still lots of water. Month after month rainfall saturated all of the ground and by January it was 75% of the state was flooded. When the Brisbane River overflowed at 4.46 during January. In Brisbane alone 12,500 properties were inundated. In the end the cos was roughly 15.9 billion US dollars. 

                                                        

Fast facts 

Australia has many long rivers. Flood water from rain that fell hundreds of kilometres upriver takes time to flow down and affect other locations. 

 

Floods don't have to be major to be hazardous. Even minor flooding, which leaves low-lying areas inundated and leads to road closures, has serious risks. Floodwater can: 

· Have surprisingly strong currents that can sweep people off their feet 

· Contain sewage, debris or other contaminants from locations far beyond where you can see 

· Be much deeper than it looks.  

 

 
Name: Felicity 
 
Text: A bush fire is very bad fire The soils so dry the forests so dry that they were effectively one giant Fuel load. I will report on how droughts are one of the many ways a bush fire happens and Ash Wednesday fire, impact on community, A Two-State Emergency and the Response and Aftermath. 

 

On the day temperatures soared to 43°C in Adelaide and Melbourne, creating the perfect recipe of catastrophe. The Ash Fire Wednesday was one of the most Destructive bush fires ever. the Ash Wednesday fire of February 16, 1983, it was very hot and humid Some people still traumatised. 

 

 

A drought is one of the many things that make a bushfire a bushfire. The tragedy didn't begin on that Wednesday. The bush fire had been Building up for months. An intense El Niño Weather pattern had been happening. The winter and spring of 1983 was extremely dry. 

 

The brutality of the blaze caught the residents and the firefighter's completely off guard. In Victoria, the holiday towns along the Great Ocean Road and communities nestled in mount Macedon were rapidly overrun. In south Australia, the beautiful Adelaide hills and the state's south-east faced terrifying walls of flame. People had little to no warning before their towns were surrounded. 

The scale of disaster overwhelmed the technology and resources of the 1980's. over 100 fires broke out across south Australia and Victoria in one day. The event overlooked national news for successive for weeks. A public record wildfires and emergency acknowledgement. 

 

Battling the fire pushes company to the breaking point. The aftermath was a time of intense national grief. The loss of 75 lives, including over a dozen firefighters, was a destructive blow. The foundation drives and reconstruct funds raised millions of dollars to help communities entirely rebuilt from the ashes. 

 

 Name: Jack  
 
Text:  

What is A Cyclone 

Cyclones destroy houses and can take lives away. Cyclones form in tropical sea areas, making a low-pressure system then starts twirling into a cyclone. Scientist Floginglee said that in the tropical region ten-twelve cyclones every year on average. There so cyclones are dangerous and take lives and houses. 

A Wondering Zero 

Cyclone Larry is super interesting because it was a category five and didn’t harm anyone. Cyclone Larry didn’t cause any fatalities. The cyclone only destroyed houses building and crops and it decided to not harm people. The bureau of meteorology said cyclone Larry didn’t cause and fatalities because people evacuated and the people who stayed where prepared for the cyclone. That’s why cyclone Larry is interesting because its didn’t cause any fatalities for a category five. 

A Town Destroyed 

Residents that where there talked about what happened they talked about the damage done to the houses. The cyclone ruined the town there was snapped powerlines everywhere and parts of houses. Dr. person said that cyclone Larry was not the worst cyclone but one of the most severe for Australia. It was a severe cyclone but not the worst. 

 

The Bananas Gone 

The wet tropical area is great to grow bananas, but it was in the way of cyclone Larry. Cyclone Larry destroyed almost all the bananas in one morning; it left the banana crops at the stem of the trees. The Queensland government said that the bananas prices were going up since cyclone Larry took them all with him and left us with a few, Also the government said the cyclone costed 1.5 billion dollars. So, there is what Cyclone Larry did, and he just wanted to go right through, and it took 2 years for farms to be growing. 

Growing The Bananas from The diseased 

They started growing the bananas back after the cyclone. Cyclone Larry ripped roofs of houses and tearing walls like paper but they cyclone didn’t have any deaths. The Queensland government said after two years the bananas are growing again. two years of high banana prices until the trees grew. 

Tracking The Storm 

People tracked the storm every day seeing where it was until it came for them when they were getting prepared for the cyclone. The Queensland government said more people looked at the storm more times than people thought. People decided to prepare for the cyclone before it hit, they boarded up windows and more to stay safe, and some people evacuated. So, they decided to prepare instead of being on the risk of death 

 

 

Different Types 

There are many different types of cyclones, but they aren't all the same. I'm going to tell you all the types and the differences. 

Hurricane. The name is used in the Atlantic Ocean and northeast pacific they form over the warm tropical oceans, and they are large spinning storm with destructive winds.  

Typhoon. The name is used in the northwest pacific they also form over warm tropical Oceans. They are like a hurricane or a cyclone but in a different region. 

Tornado. A tornado is a large spinning collum of air that forms on land and stretches from a thunderstorm to the ground. 

What to do During a Cyclone 

. stay indoors     . Don’t go near glass windows       . secure your home like turning of gas. prepare for the dark. listen for updates   avoid the eye of the cyclone 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 



 