Daily News
Special Report World News 26th March 2021
Extreme Flooding
in Australia
What is a flood?
• A flood is an overflow of water on to land that is
usually dry.
• A flood can start for many reasons, including heavy
rainfall, melting snow or as a result of tropical
storms in coastal areas.
After days of heavy rainfall, there has been
extreme flooding in parts of Australia. Lots of
different groups are working hard to help those
Photo: Floodwaters.
in need of help.
The main areas affected have been in been able to evacuate people from their homes
New South Wales (NSW) and in South East to safety. Rescue missions included helping a
Queensland (QLD). 93-year-old and a pregnant woman.
So far, around 40,000 people have been It is not just humans who are being helped
evacuated from their homes. In some areas, either. The NSW Police Force on the weekend
there has been recorded rainfall of around were able to rescue eight greyhounds and a
100mm an hour. fox terrier.
This has caused damage to people’s homes. The prime minister said he wanted to say
It has also meant that roads have been cut off, thank you for the ‘‘extraordinary efforts of
rivers have overflown and some power supplies our volunteers and the emergency services in
have been affected. responding to these terrible events.”
Although rainfall is slowing, it is predicted Gladys Berejiklian is the premier for NSW. She
that there will continue to be flooding for said on social media that she hoped people were
some days. staying safe and that she wanted to say ‘‘A huge
There have been a lot of people helping those thank you to everyone involved for all of their
in need. In a statement, Prime Minister Scott hard work, especially NSW SES.’’
Morrison said that 1700 State Emergency
Services(SES) volunteers are helping people Glossary
in NSW. They are being supported by the fire
evacuated To help someone get to a place of
services in those areas.
safety.
Fire and Rescue NSW says that crews have
been working around the clock to help. They
excess More than expected.
say already by the weekend that floodwater
rescue services had ‘‘performed in excess of 200 marine Relating to the sea.
rescues.’’
premier Politicians in charge of a state in
Marine Rescue NSW has been making sure
Australia.
people are safe too. Across the state, they have
visit twinkl.com
Click Here for Support with using Interactive PDFs
