Speaker A: Start recording. All right. So from the beginning, I'm going to be showing you a series of— I'm going to show you a series of tasks. My task list I have sitting next to me. It is organize and rename images, create a unit of work, create the resources for a lesson of that unit of work. May not get the unit of work finished in time, but I'll do another one, the resources. Create an infographic of the lifecycle of a butterfly, because I know someone's doing butterflies. And we're also going to create a forms quiz just because it's really very helpful to have. So inside here, what I've got installed on this computer is called the Gemini. I'm going to spell Gemini with an M. You feel free to do the same. And if I just pressed Enter, it would run Gemini, but just because we're sitting here and nobody wants to chat with it, we say YOLO, and that will give us Gemini. And okay, so what's happening here is I've opened Gemini in that folder, which means that Gemini, the AI, has access to everything in that folder. We're going to trust that. And if when you give AI access to a folder, you're essentially saying you can do whatever you want with this stuff. So all of the tools that I use— don't you dare— all of the tools that I use are safe in most respects. There's a couple that I'm going to show you maybe towards the end that aren't quite as safe, but they're also much more powerful. I need you to go through this entire folder. I want you to analyze each image, identify the content of the image, and rename the file to suit the content of the image. When you say do one school, That's— oh yeah, yeah, like, yeah, yeah. Well, no, I see what I've got a plan. I'm just going to— so Gemini is on YOLO now, and I'm just going to drag that off to the side because what it's going to do, because Gemini is a vision model, it's going to be able to identify all the images, look at all of them, and rename them. So I'm just going to stick that on another screen, and that agent And I refer to them as agents because essentially that's what they are. Now, what I would suggest if you're keen to get started is this program here. This is called Google Anti-Gravity. There are a lot of different— they're called IDEs, that is integrated development environments, not important, but let me just close others. But what you have here is you have a file structure. So this folder is called Joshua. It has a file structure. I don't like the way these files sort of end up all crammed in, but this is, this is essentially my entire teaching life in one folder. If we go into units, you can see like all of my unit work. For all of my stuff being built out in time. What I did do, however, is I went into the English section and I went into— go to— this is your turn to carry. I have got a list of books that you might be interested in. Usually when I'm writing these units, I'm looking, I usually hassle you and say, can you tell me some books that you would otherwise use? We don't necessarily have those books. So I'm just going to keep those there. And if we drop term 2, we'll go over this. Sorry. So in the middle is all our files. If you open something, say I opened up, you know, something like that one. That's code for making stuff, but that's where you read things. And over here we have our chat. We're going to open up a new chat. I'm going to get the folder that we were just working in inside of ScraP, which has disappeared. Term 2 ScraP. I'm just going to drop that in, and you can drag over things into here. So you can say, um, this is the unit of work that I want you to create the sequence for, I want you to use the following books in the sequence, and I want you just to make your best judgment and just go for it. Try not to ask me too many questions. The— and then I'll give it the books. So this agent, essentially the same thing, it's running on Gemini Flash. It's now going to look at all of the files inside the folder. It's going to identify everything that's going on. And then it's going to sequence that lesson using a sequencing skill. AI agents like skills. This is all the skills that I have, and lesson sequence or unit sequence, unit sequence, no, someone here, it's going to go, I can't remember what I called it now. It's going to be a sequencing thing. Could be English. English unit sequence, English lesson, English teaching sequence. Here you go. And that is the skill. So I made a skill that takes our planning structure and the unit of work as it's presented by Education Queensland with all its gibberish and all its stuff and turns that into the lesson structure that we've you know, that I've showed you. That's going to do that in the background. My next, like, and what's going to happen here, guys, is I'm just going to start a whole lot of tasks and just see how far I can get through them all. And, you know, I'll get, you know, another 10 minutes. We're going to make a lesson resource. So if I go to my English unit, Unit 2 English, This is my sequence. You see what I mean by having all of these files all over the shop? Like, it just becomes massive. That is my sequence. This was the sequence that was created using the same tool that we've got going on over there. I've got to let that one go for a little bit. I'll grab another one for you. This is Cursor in a moment when it kicks over. I just don't want to interrupt that thing till it's done. Won't take long. Cursor, here we go. No, that's not Cursor. Come on, Cursor. Don't make a liar of me. Thank you. There's Cursor. So this is exactly the same, but it's a bit different in that this is the application that I use to create— it's the application that I use to create websites because I can open a website in a browser. So this is a stock market game that I made for the kids where the kids buy and sell stocks. And say I wasn't happy with this bit of text here. If I wanted the agent to fix that, I would have to describe to it, okay, on this page it says stock market game, it's just below the picture. Can you please change the font red? And it's a lot of explanation. But in, in Cursor, I can, let's just make a new agent. I'm going to select that. And you can identify the parts. So if I just click there, it puts that part into my chat. And I just say, turn this text red. Thank you. And it will now go ahead and change that. So it's got an inbuilt browser that will identify and change everything that you want to have happen. It's going to write a whole lot of code and do that in the background. And in a moment, we'll come back to it. Some of the things that I've created with this particular agent is the Natural Disasters website. This, we're currently in day 11 of trying to get this unblocked. It is simply information, but Because natural disaster— well, because websites are a pain and they're full of advertising and they don't contain what you want and you want it to contain everything you want, I thought, make my own website. So if we go into floods, we've got multiple sections. We've got how floods work. The kids can work out how floods work. These ones were all made. I think I made these things in Gemini. I'm pretty sure. There's lots of stuff in this website because I needed to teach the kids about shortcuts. So, you know, if you are scrolling through here and you're not sure what the word meteorological means, you can click on it and then it'll give you a general description. Catchment, that sort of thing, is one of the text structures. You know, that you need to teach the kids about. So we're doing a lot of work on text structures and specifically text structures in websites. But this website was done by AI. I checked the copy. So it made the copy. I read it. I went, yep, I'm happy. No, it's too advanced. Go fix it. And the end result was, not too bad, I think, you know. The issues that I had, well, they weren't many, but, you know, the— why is that now being so slow? There we go. You know, it was, it did a good job of it. And one of the skills is to make those things. We just check on this guy. Login title is now stored, blah, blah, blah. I'm sorry, I'm not seeing red. Oh, there it is. So we just refresh it and now that's red. Thank you, so that's you done. And over here, our unit of work is all— oh, it just finished right then. Let's have a look at what it did. I don't know why I did that, but we'll be all right. Let's go to that one. So that is the sequence. I'm just going to go into preview. So you can see it a bit neater. There you go. So all the charts and all the bits and pieces are there, and you can go back through. Like, when I, when I do units, I read the lesson and go, "I don't know what I was thinking then," and, you know, change it before I start, which is exactly what I'm going to do now. We'll go back into my unit, English Unit 2, and we'll go down here. And I will find, that's not right. See how it's like embedded? I hate the embedded side of everything is just collapsed into junk. And it's really hard to see, but it gives, if I keep it like this, Joshua always has access to that whole folder. So I keep it together. Anyway, so we'll make a new one. We're gonna go the materials for this. Lesson— I'm just going to read the le— no, I'm not. I'm just going to put it in here. Let's go lesson— one I haven't done. Lesson 15. I want you to make all the materials for Lesson 15. I'm going to need a PowerPoint to teach the concepts. I'm going to need a student worksheet that has question sets for the students on the topics that we're discussing. I want a full detailed lesson plan and I want a Microsoft Forms assessment that I can use for the kids at the end of the lesson to see if they have worked out everything. Please don't ask me any questions. Just make your best judgment and get it done quickly. There we go. That is Whisper Flow. So a shortcut button on my mouse. That I press that opens up the microphone and then you just start talking and then the spoken text goes to AI for cleaning up. You'll see that when I put this text up in here, it actually dot pointed the points that I wanted. So it formats based on where you're going. I'm not really happy with the grammar. I'm gonna. You can fix that, but you know, like for all intents and purposes, it's very good for emails as well. If you are, if you're writing an email to somebody, I didn't plan on doing Whistler Flow, but I just got to go, I got, I got to do it. We'll write an email to somebody. I'm going to reply to Switch4Schools. Yeah, whatever. Hi Jimmy, thank— sorry, that was picking you up. Sorry. Hi Jimmy, thanks for your advice. Can you just let somebody know something and let them know that I'm not happy? Thanks, Doug. There you go. So it formatted based on the fact that it knew I was in an email and did all the, you know, new line, blah, blah, blah, Jimmy, whatever. I find that very helpful. Just spit it out, press send. The implementation plan's going well. Yeah. Okay. So now, if you are— so Google Gemini, this IDE here, you can get free credits on this. You can install Google Gemini and you can open up a folder. If you, you know, at the moment, it has access to Joshua. I'm not going to mess with it. But if you open up a different folder, it has different accesses. And then you can just say, make me this, do this, read that, do this. If you're ever chatting with a chatbot and you've got to constantly drag files in to reference, this is so much faster because you open this and that is your chatbot. And your chatbot has the skills that you put in your.agent folder. All of these things here, This one makes PowerPoints. This does Python programs. There's like, there's a lot of stuff in there I don't use, but I collect them anyway because they're just so helpful. This is one of mine that I'm going to do. Well, this is one that's currently being used by the chatbot at the moment to create my Microsoft Forms. Microsoft Forms requires very specific formatting. If we have a look at the skill, you can see down here, this is the formatting for everything. First of all, the question, option A, option B, option C, option D. The correct answer is C, and the person gets 1 point. That's going to be important soon. Yes, mate? Most skills that you've got, will we be able to access them on the new— I can, I will send you those skills. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Yeah, no, you won't. Oh, most of the useful ones I made my own. The rest are just coding ones, but for school, they're all my own creation. And the best skill of all is Skill Creator. So you can say, use Skill Creator to create me a skill that writes or creates a PowerPoint just like this, or like writes a unit the way I want it. And you tell it to create the skills. I didn't write any of this stuff. I told it I want this formatting. This is what I require. And every time I ask for a Microsoft Form, you do that. And that's what it does. So I'll just keep an eye on that one. Oh. Oh, no, no, no, no. Yeah, I will— you send me an email, I'll send you everything. Yeah, don't fret about that. Yeah, yeah. Gemini, go Gemini. So like Gemini has a higher free tier. You know, I've been quite happy with Gemini so far as things have gone. Create me an infographic for the life cycle of a butterfly. This is for a Prep 1 class. I want it to be fun, colorful, and engaging, but also informative, and I want very simple language. Not a problem. We'll just get tools, and we'll go create image, and we'll go that. Every— all of these, these are all made exactly the same way. All my little posters around the place. What I did was I dropped a lesson plan in so that the language matches the way I talk about it, you know, so it does a pretty good job of that. When you drop a lesson plan in, it gets a lot more context. So there's that. Now, what we have, and the purpose of this conversation was supposed to be about Adobe, I know that, so I'm getting Adobe sorted. But when you use Gemini, if you link up your Adobe Creative Cloud account to it, you can, you can do inpainting. So Adobe Express, everybody has access to that no matter what. But in this part, you can remove background, you can crop it, you can remove objects, but What I like to do is generally the inpainting, where, if you hurry up, give me a tree, just give me a tree, and then we color in where we want our tree, and we go insert, and that then goes away and takes it. So inpainting is where you take a, you know, you can put stuff in and it'll blend it all in. I wish I had a tree. I'm not being very creative, but the point is made. And then, yeah. So there's, yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, there's a tree in the background of that one. They get 3 options you can choose from. I kind of like that one because it suits the whole thing. The infographics are fantastic. I love infographics and I've only loved them for about 2 weeks, but it's becoming my go-to thing for putting on the board because kids like, "Ah!" And they'll look at it rather than a big stack of text. Anyway, I'll check back on this one. Yep, we're done. Beautiful. So what we got here is we got our lesson plan. Starts off, and all the lesson plans have my skill, so learning intention plus success criteria, all of the bits and pieces. I've changed this over time. It now includes, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but it now includes every lesson must have a writing component, every lesson must have a reading component, and that has meant, like, because it's the sort of thing I don't remember, the PowerPoint display, is sitting in, sitting in presentations most likely. Yep. Let's have a look at how it did with PowerPoint. In from here, if you right-click on any object and go reveal in File Explorer, it just opens up the thing. The last couple of generations I've done, here we go, has been, oh my God. So it's stuffed up. But I'll show you. Okay, so this was the last lesson that I had it do for me. I'm just going to say to it in a couple of seconds, you made it— you made a complete mess of the PowerPoint presentation. I need you to make sure that it doesn't just have gibberish code in it. Make sure it's a proper PowerPoint presentation, identify the problems that you had, what caused it, and fix the PowerPoint creation skill to take account for those things that went wrong. So it will, it will then go back to the— so it's not enough to fix the PowerPoint. There's a problem with the skills. So you say, fix the skill so that in future I'm going to send that. Anyway, so yeah, this was the last one I did. There's nothing fancy about it, but what I— the skill, the PowerPoint creation skill, I don't want it wordy, you know, and it really wants to put lots of big paragraphs of text in there and stuff like that. So having simpler, having the skill make something simple is really, really handy. I have another one that could be interesting where I said to it, I want you to make me a PowerPoint, but I want you to open the website and get screen clippings of the section of the website that you're talking about when you're talking about this feature and that feature. That particular one, Might be less than 8. I don't want to— it might be less than 8. I don't know. Language, nuts. See, I'm just going to go through them. I'm not going to find it, but you know, you get the idea. It's, it's, it's really good. This is a really good one. I have 3 of these. I have them on— no. But the, you know, okay, this one might have come back. Laura, oh, for heaven's sake. Oh, it's still going. Sorry, I wasn't happy. Oh, this, okay, because we're at 3, I'm going to just do this. Okay, if I go into my homework, I'm currently running 3 levels of homework. It would have been impossible without this situation, but I have a homework creation skill. My Homework Creation skill creates a printed out version of all the homework, 'cause I have kids that need printing, blue, green, red. It has the question set, it has the reading set, so the reading that they're doing. Inside the question set, I don't have a viewer, reveal in Explorer. Question set looks like this, and you'll recognize the format as being Sorry, the title, the question, the options, the answer. This is an old one, so you're not going to see the points, but inside of Forms, I go, do I have Microsoft Forms open? Of course you don't. Let's go, let's go there, Microsoft Forms. And with that format, like when you're making a form, you've got to type out the question, you've got to type out each of the answers, you've got to identify what the next, the true answer is, and you've got to go to the next one. With this, once you've spat out and AI just made that for me based on the reading, I say I want, this is the reading, I want comprehension questions, I want at least, like I do 15, the last 3 have to be inferencing for my top level. So gotta have some challenge there. If we do a quick import, we go upload from this device. We'll go into Joshua. Where are you, Joshua? Joshua is— do you remember the movie WarGames? So WarGames, the name of the computer that tried to destroy the world was Joshua. So I call it Joshua. But essentially Joshua is a folder. It's— Joshua used— Well, I do. His name's Joshua, and this is him here. Hey Joshua, can you tell us about all the agents that you have under your control? So this is Telegram. This is the one that is not as safe. This is more authentic an AI agent. This AI agent is running in the cloud and it has permanent memory. So it dreams after you talk to it. It'll go into a standby state and it'll dream about— it says a dream, but it will think over what you did and remember things about you and your preferences so that in future it will, it will go ahead and do it. But Joshua has, under Joshua's McKittrick, the deep research specialist, Watson, the professional content writer, Stephen, the full-stack developer, Falcon, the education specialist and curriculum designer, Lightman the educational content creator, and Jennifer the archivist and memory knowledge operations. Those agents— when you're talking to an agent or an AI, there's a limited amount of context. You go do you, miss. There's a limited amount of words that it can cope with. And so you split jobs between agents so that they don't get confused by things. So Joshua, if I gave Joshua the job of researching, I watch a YouTube video, I say, I want you to put this in the vault. The vault is a collection of— Jennifer deals with the vault— collection of information, documents, studies, that sort of thing. Um, Joshua will send that, first of all, the request to McKittrick, the deep research specialist, to go and get all the information. That will come back to Watson, the professional content writer who will write the notes. They will send that to Jennifer who will store it in the vault. The vault is Obsidian. Obsidian looks like this. Just a moment. Okay, this is going to freak you out. This is what they said not to do. Don't do it, Doug, they said. Keep it to yourself. People are going to think you're a nut. So this is Joshua's brain. And all of these are connected concepts. When you have system storage architecture, that was a— I was doing some studies on system storage, obviously, back in April. So they created a note. That note is related to— the vault operations and things like that. A lot of these are empty, but a lot of them have got specific— see, the tool is just a link, but if we have a look, generally somewhere out here, large code bases, large code bases. Well, what I did was I gave Joshua an article on large code bases with free tools, and through the system they created this write-up of the thing. Keep it short because you don't want to do too much reading. It keeps everything there, and Joshua has access to that brain, so I can say to him, do we know anything about, uh, OpenClaw and the, uh, agentic structure within OpenClaw? And Joshua will then go and talk to Jennifer and Jennifer go into the vault, find out what we know about this. That'll come back, it'll go to Joshua. Joshua will message me on Telegram and say, hey, I've got the work done. Joshua works overnight, so over nighttime I'll often say, overnight I want you keeping track of these news articles and stuff like that. So in the morning I want a full report. Every morning Joshua sends me a full report on Joshua himself. Oh, wait on. Joshua's reports. Joshua Falcon sent this report to me. So Joshua's got his own email address, joshuafalcon@75.agents. He basically does a systems check of all of Joshua's systems, gateways, all of the system resources, the cron jobs, which are just recurring jobs, make sure their emails are all good, log any issues. Here's some issues I'm going to deal with. Well, he's going to deal with. I say he, he's going to go home tonight. I'm going to say fix all this stuff. And It will all be perfect. I didn't actually make that thing. Just one more thing, one more thing, one more thing. Just a sec. Okay, mate. One more thing. Joshua, Joshua, Joshua, not there. Documents. Where are you, Joshua? Joshua, homework. It's all alphabetical. Homework, week 3. Questions open. Yeah, I know. And we go quiz. And that document in less than 30 seconds, it never takes a minute, is going to be fully formatted. Every question is going to be perfect. All the answers are going to be there. We'll start a review. And there we go. So every question in there, all the right answers identified. All of that stuff done, and to share it with the class, you can use a QR code, you can use copy a link, that link is now copied, stick it on a thing, they can go through that, they can, you can embed it anywhere you want, you can embed it inside a website just by copying and pasting that into the HTML, which I don't suggest you do. I just copy that, give it to Joshua and say, put this in my website, you know. Joshua runs that website I showed you. It uploads it all. It does all of the work of bug fixes, changes, all that stuff. Okay, that's me. Okay, now I don't expect anybody to remember any of that, but, but No, no, no, no, no. What's going to happen is I'm going to give this recording to Joshua and say, I want you to create a detailed rundown of all the tools I used, links to all of the, all of the programs. I want you to include— and you're listening to me now, so you're just going to follow the last instruction I give you— I want links to up-to-date YouTube videos on how to do these things, tutorials and things like that. I want live links and I want you to send me an email reminding me to send out the.agent file. It'll happen. Yeah, like I will take this recording. I will, I'll do, I could do it now. You're going to go home, but I could drop it into Telegram right now. I could give you, I'm not going to give Joshua your email addresses, but I could say when you're finished doing that, email that report to everybody in this room. And you would all get an email from Joshua saying, hey, here's your thing, all, all like, you know, properly formatted, properly done, all that sort of stuff. I'm going to take this, go home, and really work on this and show you what can come out of just this, because I've started recording a lot of lessons for this purpose. I record what I do most of the time. Because not only can I give a kid a recording of a lesson because I'm screen recording the screen, but also I can take that, I'll give it to Joshua at the end of the week and say, have a look at what we studied this week and make up my homework for maths. Because, you know, it knows all the lessons. You would— because it's listened to me do those lessons, it'll balance it right so the numbers won't be too big, or, you know, the maths will be suited to what I'm doing. Because I'm up the front going, well, 32 times 2, blah, blah, blah. And then it knows the ballpark we're aiming at. And it's very good at that. Yeah, very good. Anyway, thanks, guys. Thank you. Well, you can. Yeah. Josh. Thank you. Pretty amazing. Oh, don't, don't, don't, like, everybody said to me, if you start doing it, people are going to freak out, but install Antigravity, open up a folder, and start chatting with what you want, because it does everything you want it to do. You can make any file you want programmatically. It does it. You don't need to know anything. You just install the program, run it, and start talking. That's it. Yeah. All right. Cool. I was gonna try and do your PowerPoint. So your PowerPoint, you know, and I started, I got the idea today and I thought, I know what I'll do. I'll make a skill that I can give you where you just say, I want a new slide that says the Mother's Day store's on Friday and make it look all fancy. And it would do that, but the skill is in development. Okay, so eventually I'm going to give you this skill and you're going to go, okay, you know, any change required, tell Joshua, Joshua does it. Yeah, no worries.